ready boom and we're live hello Lex hey
what's going on the sequel part 2 you
have a very similar if not the exact
same suit on this is all I wear you look
very professional
yeah very Reservoir Dogs Reservoir Dogs
well let's go to the best sequel of all
time Godfather Part 2 that's the best to
go of all time I think John wick might
be quick
how dare you sir Godfather Part 2 I mean
that's that has to be the best sequel ok
then and if this is godfather part 2
let's definitely not do part 3 yeah part
3 was terrible right well let's let's
not offend anyone but it was good yeah
yeah I don't remember it it was the
older Pacino oh that was like way later
right those 90s oh okay so it's like
Point Break the remakes
yes right look when they try to redo
things like way way way later they
almost never accept the Alien franchise
they've done a pretty fucking good job
with the alien threat they had a couple
of duds yeah in there but for the most
part I've actually never seen the Alien
franchise what who are you well you
aren't you in a science intelligent man
can disagree but United in the science I
don't know I prefer to prefer Al Pacino
I would say that the older sent a woman
Al Pacino you know that merely yeah what
that's one and yeah you got the Oscar
for that one what about the one when he
played the devil and the devil for
friend okay there's this to those duds
for everybody that's not one that was
advocate uh-huh there you go that was
with canneries ah Keanu Reeves from John
wick I heard John Waite par threes Rory
the matrix the better movie not true did
you see this that happened this High
School in North Bergen Jersey put on the
alien play a couple weeks ago Sigourney
Weaver showed up right oh she showed up
I could cut just the other day to like
say thanks or whatever
tell them they did it awesome but oh it
looked like crazy and I was just
wondering if they did this when you're
in high school do you think you might
have joined drama like if they did the
alien play
I want to loved it a little watched it
I'm not getting the drama those people
cry too much there's too much work it's
cool suit though yeah okay let's talk
about this is two kinds of movies
there's fun movies and there's movies
that are like transformational for
society get sent to a woman what okay
listen you can I say Scent of a Woman is
transformational for some that's one of
the greatest scenes between a man and a
woman on film
the tango scene are you not married no
I'm not married yeah it's like someone
talking about French you can't speak
French I see yeah
it's nonsense that movie sucked I read
about friendship incentive a woman your
favorite movie no it's not my favorite I
don't think that movie sucked either by
the way if you get mad right now
I don't barely remember it but it is it
is up there I'm sure it's a good movie
that's one of the greatest performances
all right we're off to a good start
yeah yeah I bet you there's thousands of
people agree with me right now
yeah there's millions that don't I'm not
called haters everyone who disagrees is
always a derp okay so what's your
favorite love scene in a movie not like
like between us you need to get married
bro okay you're into love movies and
shit no I'm not by yourself a gal
there's no doubt we're not talking about
romantic comedies Adam Sandler here uh
rom-coms we're talking about serious
like dramatic moments right okay so
Godfather good movie yeah great movement
does it have to have two guys like
shooting each other or not okay so
you're seeing Santa woman yeah I'm sure
I saw it yeah what I barely remember it
all right well there's I could watch it
today it'll be like a new movie to me
okay there's this broken man I spoiler
alert considering suicide right it's
deep so he is tortured by you know by
his involvement in the war by being
responsible with all this kind of stuff
he's now mentoring a younger version of
himself who has more character more
integrity and throughout all of this he
meets this beautiful young woman
he's blind for the dance and there's
this beautiful moment where they can
hmm I mean okay listen Phil what what's
the purpose of film all right
entertainment or make us think I mean
make us think hmm you know you're gonna
think if you want to think
nothing makes you think a film can
engage you you can it can resonate with
you or not I have a movie that I throw
by people whenever I want to find out
whether or not I want to listen to
anything they have to say about movies
it's not gonna The Big Lebowski yeah
yeah that's one of the greatest news oh
look at you okay that could be Leia
that could be like slightly better than
sent a woman oh boy that also is one of
the greatest scenes between a man and a
woman when he is uh when the fine young
lady's painting her toenails right and
and she's offered him sex money yeah
that would that's that's a beautiful
moment - he's a beautiful yeah really
that girl that used to be a hot mess
what's her name Tara Reid yeah she's
still a hot mess if she get her shit
together
she's been like struck the sharknado
series is uh she's in there yeah yeah so
I passed the big lebowski test and you
failed the sense of woman test well I
don't remember it I gotta wrap this cars
really don't remember it okay I mean I'm
sure it's great I'm sure it's great if
yeah you're a wise man if you like it
I'm sure it's good and you also
recognize that Godfather three it kind
of sucks yeah yeah but I like the old
Pacino reminisce listen Godfather is
about your people the Italian people
have dominated the the mob the brilliant
mob movies right mm-hmm
I mean Godfather's about family right
there's something deeply like genuine
about that that like in our modern
society we really crave for just like
bigger than the individual bigger than
the rules of society the government the
man its family above all right that
that's a good I don't know that's
timeless yes that I groove that the the
moment with the young Pacino when he
talks to what his brother Fredo hmm says
don't ever take sides against the family
again ever
yeah that's one of the greatest moments
that's great mom
alright alright alright
I'm romanticizing movies here but just
like John wick though huh never seen it
Wow never seen it it's good excuse me
it's good movie to watch on the
treadmill is uh is he playing a Russian
mobster in that um no kills a bunch of
them though and he speaks Russian and he
works for the Russians kills people for
the Russians canneries is one of the
greatest human beings ever you think so
yeah he's like the nicest guy yeah I
heard he's a really nice guy but he
plays a badass gangster what am I gonna
be a little bit more fit work out a
little bit more I see without a shirt on
like hmm not quite buying it okay
average man yeah but the average man is
not the fucking best assassin of all
time with all this martial arts skill
waiter
yeah but fatal words big phaidor
might have like a gut but he's a thick
motherfucker okay
young phaidor ever see young fade are
when he was in his prime like back when
he fought like Fujita like back when he
there's a picture of phaidor
standing around with a bunch of
kettlebells you ever see that picture
nope around say Dornan's lifting days I
suspect and this is coming from then
that's that's one when fader was fairly
young up there but that's uh that's not
the one I'm talking about
you know that one with the kettlebells
is that picture up see beef on that
picture
never a six-pack in sight no no six-pack
but I suspect that Fedor might have been
on some performance-enhancing substances
during his prime
you mean like hard training lots of
drilling technique so so how dare you
sir
dude he's in pride everybody was on
steroids man yeah that's him look at him
that's him in his prime that's a big
motherfucker now I do not know if he was
on anything but everybody else was I
mean literally everybody they they had
it in their contract that you we will
not test for steroids you know ensign
anyway he told me that they like
essentially encouraged people to take
steroids
yeah the pride days that's right yeah
and it's not
Russians don't have a long history of
using performance-enhancing substances
I'm sure you saw that movie hey Chris
you see it yep fascinating right it's
it's it's fascinating it I mean I don't
steroids often feel to me like a bit of
a witch-hunt often times you assume
people are on steroids
I'm a bit of maybe I'm naive or an
optimist but I tend to give people the
benefit the dow until proven otherwise
but it Chris obviously proves yeah
throws a monkey wrench of those gears
but you know with with fate all right
the technique on that the technique to
execution the timing the brilliance of
elements no doubt no hurt no he's
phenomenal yeah I just wanna if not the
greatest heavyweight of all time he's
certainly one of them and I don't think
steroids would help that yes they do to
help yeah they have that guy in
particularly yeah they help everything
they help your training they helped your
biddie ability to recover they help your
explosive power they help your speed
they help everything the but they they
also it's not just steroids like a lot
of them on EPO EPO radically enhances
your endurance and they're starting to
catch people need they just stripped TJ
Dillashaw UFC bantamweight champion for
starett for EPO or other it's tragic yes
it is tragic especially TJ he's a just
phenomenal fighter
if not I mean certainly top 10 pound for
pound and then this is one of those
things it comes up and you go oh man
it's a legacy killer in this world about
to kind of reconsider what kind of what
should be allowed or not yeah I agree
with that that there is an idea of what
you should make steroids legal right all
right not legal sorry a lot or some kind
of supplementation like where's the line
when you when you start to talk about
the future of martial arts the future
sport if you can control the levels so
that they're healthy I mean isn't that
the reason that they're not allowed is
because if abused they become unhealthy
they long term well-being of the person
there's look if that was the case we
wouldn't allow fighting because fighting
is more damage
steroids for sure for sure getting
punched and kicked and fucking kneed in
the face and elbowed into
unconsciousness that is way worse for
you than steroids the route the concern
is not for the athlete the concerns for
the opponent the idea is that you will
be able to inflict punishment that you
would not ordinarily be able to inflict
you will have more endurance you will
have more power you will hurt someone
potentially even look there's going to
be a time where someone dies and it
mixed martial arts of that and if that's
someone who was the the victor who did
not die was on steroids
it is going to be a huge national
tragedy and a massive disaster for the
sport for everything if that ever it
does happen we can only hope at depth it
never does
but for sure you know it's a it's a very
very dangerous game you're playing and
when you are martial arts a very
dangerous game and when you are
enhancing your body with chemicals that
are illegal while you're doing that game
the real question is though here's my
take on it and this is it's one of the
most human subjects and that being
meaning that it's messy humans are messy
like there's good and there's bad you
know look like abortion is a messy
subject it's messy you know whether you
have the whether you agree with
someone's right to have it or not it is
what you're doing is especially as the
fetus gets older it's messy you know
when it's a complicated discussion it's
not a clear it's not like you should
drink water you know I mean it's like
it's a very complicated discussion
steroids are a very complicated
discussion you're not allowed to do them
but they exist for a reason the reason
why they exist is they're really
effective they're really effective at
enhancing your body but how much of that
will we allow we allow creatine we allow
supplements in terms of you know there's
there's certain things that can slightly
elevate your testosterone slightly
elevate your growth hormone we allow
sauna and ice baths and all these things
that have shown to enhance recovery but
that's that's too much it's too good
they're too effective
but it's weird it's weird that this
thing that we found that makes you
better you can't use yeah and so I have
to go back a little bit and disagree
with you on something so in terms of
fighting being dangerous and that's if
we want it to fit things that are
dangerous for you would forbid fighting
I think the main thing you're doing can
be dangerous I mean the main thing that
we're talking about the sport the the
combat event that can be dangerous
because that is what we watch to people
at the height of their skill ability
heart passion putting their life at risk
that can be dangerous but the
supplementation around it the way to
make it to make their training better
more effective that can't be dangerous
and I thought that can't be named can
yet to be dangerous so I thought
steroids were considered what sort of
band because abuses lead to long-term
damage to health now we see steroids is
cheating mm-hmm but it was banned
initially because it has detrimental
effects I don't think that's true it's
not no because there's no real evidence
that it's detrimental it's not as
detrimental as alcohol when you allow
people to drink but even a bit even when
abused where the body's like there's
there's not a lot but like there's a
great documentary on it called bigger
stronger faster and it's by my friend
Chris Bell and when you watch that
documentary and you realize like oh well
the real negative consequences of taking
steroids or that it shuts down your
endocrine system so it stops your body's
natural production of testosterone and
growth hormone and hormones that's the
real problem and for young people that
can be very devastating and it can lead
to depression and suicidal thoughts and
all sorts of really bad things when your
testosterone shuts down but as far as
like death boy I mean there's people are
prescribed pain pills every day of the
week and fighters that are on injuries
that have been you know that have gotten
surgery they were they're prescribed
pain pills every day of the week and
those pain pills kill people left and
right that's just a fact people die of
those things all the time much more so
than die of stare
so I'm not advocating for the use of
steroids I'm just I'm being pretty
objective and neutral about this but I'm
just looking at it like it is a it's a
very messy subject yeah it's very
eloquently put but so so your problem in
terms of damaging the opponent is if one
side takes there wasn't exactly what
happens if both the problem is you would
require someone do that
maybe someones a holistic person they
don't want to introduce any unnatural
exogenous steroids into their body and
hormones into their body they want they
want everything to be produced by the
human body they want to they want to eat
healthy food train hard sleep well and
compete naturally yeah that's Ct
Fletcher here yesterday yes is natural
bodybuilding yes or not bodybuilder
powerlifter yeah yeah but that's not
required right this is you're not
requiring people you're giving them the
choice so you know it's an interesting
possibility we're in moderation you'll
be able to allow steroids in future of
athletics because with an argument that
if done in moderation you can actually
create healthier athletes yeah that's I
mean that's a real argument for the Tour
de France the Tour de France they say
that you actually are better off and
healthier taking steroids yeah and EPO
then you are doing it without it because
it's so unbelievable ruling on the body
yeah I mean those athletes are basically
some of the best people in the world at
suffering yeah long-term suffering it's
incredible yeah ultra marathon runners
all guys it's a different sort of thing
you know and you know the thing about
ultra marathon runners didn't even test
them because they're like good luck
those people have iron wills
like like Kourtney de Walters woman who
you know she is ya know
she's been in here she's candy just
drinks beer eats candy and peanuts
doesn't make sense yeah I mean she just
got a fucking iron will her will is
indomitable and you could take all the
steroids you want when you're running
for three days that chick is gonna beat
you it doesn't know how to quit yeah
just has no quitter did you see the
podcast with her we actually talked
about how she fell she couldn't see she
was in
saying I think it was in her ocular
hemorrhaging
so her eyeballs were bleeding internally
something like that where it was
impeding her vision she couldn't see I
would stop I would stop running
no she fell because she couldn't see
busted her head open bleeding all down
her face keeps running barely barely can
see her feet that she's running keeps
running I'm glad those people are out
there they don't let you know like that
like I don't know how to quit really
yeah I'm like I do a lot of stuff like
that like stupid like I ran yesterday I
couldn't sleep I ran in here yesterday
13 miles I'm not a runner just just this
weird obsession
you don't run no I run but I'm not a
runner
I got my why I'm I have a similar body
like yours
we're not exactly we do like better
built for short sprinting and then maybe
killing somebody with our hands versus a
long distance well you're a black belt
in jujitsu right yeah yeah where do you
train at now train at Broadway jujitsu
in Boston nice and that's and before I
was in in Philly balance Studios a film
agrees and so on right but Cobb acneic
actually trains in Broadway
oh really love that car yeah he had last
time I was on actually want to talk
about this a bead fight cuz I'm I'm
Russian so I loved the Russian way yeah
but I also love the I mean Kyle to me
represents like the American he's like
the Rocky
if you if you remember that fight with
against the third round he was winning I
mean that's the know the best of what
martial arts is MMA is to me is like you
have two technicians they just throw
everything away like screw this yeah I
was just gonna throw down well as it
beat had broken his hand broke his hand
somewhere I think in the second round so
he was pretty compromised going into
that third round couldn't really fire
back and Kyle's just has zero quit in
them there's an animal yeah I mean
that's the most beautiful you talk about
like technical fights in the ground or
technical striking like when like two
technicians throw everything away this
I'm sorry but that's what is the I love
the most about any kind of fighting any
kind of sport I enjoyed in the MoMA
I discourage it heavily I don't think
it's a smart way to fight yeah well then
I get it that's probably your job well
it's not just my job it's like what I
like
like I get I get the impulse but I don't
want people to give in to that impulse
I think fighting is something that you
should do correctly you should do you
should do there's there's principles
that you should follow to fight
correctly it doesn't mean that you
shouldn't take chances but you know
there's moments like Ricardo Lamas when
he fought max Holloway
and they just stood in the center of the
ring for the last few seconds of the
fight and max Holloway pointed down at
the ground he's like come on right here
right here and they just started
swinging hey make it was amazing well it
happened but if I was in Max's corner I
don't know don't do that man this macho
shit is gonna give you fucking brain
damage you're gonna get hit with shots
you wouldn't get hit with that's a
difficult you like you said human nature
is messy I would say that is the
greatest that is the greatest moment of
their lives at that war no listen or
this is the greatest moment of max
Holloway's life max always the greatest
sentiment all-time discussion no but max
Holloway is the greatest featherweight
of all time is a guy who destroyed Jose
Aldo twice he's a guy that he's he's
beaten everybody in front of him that
feather with the idea that this one
moment where they decided to throw out
all his skill and technique and just
swing for the bleachers in the middle of
the Octagon it was a fun moment it was
great to watch but the idea that that
was the greatest moments life is for a
crazy person yeah there's moments in
sports they're just magic Olympics bring
that when like the thing that you don't
think should happen or can't possibly
happen or is not wise would people just
throw everything away you know you like
that yeah you're a passion person yeah
action person yeah for sure that's an
interesting thing for someone who
studies artificial intelligence I mean
if anybody listen this podcast book what
the fuck does this guy do dogs they talk
about movies
nice vehicle we are we have plenty of
time sir we have plenty of time but
that's the beautiful thing about this
podcast we're just talking so tell me
what you got here with your notes man
I mean you are fucking prepared I mean
you have a lot of shit here yeah many
many pages for sure I don't miss I don't
miss stuff I mean there's a there's been
a lot of exciting stuff on the
autonomous vehicle space since you came
on I got a Tesla and I've experienced
what that thing is like when I put it on
autopilot and it's stunning it's crazy I
mean this is the performance of the V's
amazing well in terms of its ability to
change lanes and its ability to drive
without you doing anything I just put my
hand on the wheel and hold it there and
it does all the work
so because like one or two people listen
to this podcast I want to take this
opportunity and tell people if you drive
a Tesla whether you listen to this now
or a year from now or two years from now
Tesla or any other car keep your damn
eyes on the road so whatever you think
the system is able to do you will have
to still monitor the road and you just
still have to take over when it fails if
when really so we're throwing with this
is like the moment we're throwing down
right now I think it's know this is your
level of expertise obviously no I think
it's really important to in this
transitionary phase whatever the car
company whatever the system that we
don't over trust the system we don't
become complacent we don't think he can
do more than he can the currently 40,000
people die in the United States from
from fatal crashes the number one reason
for that is distraction so texting smart
phones how much has it gone up since
smart phones people don't exactly
they're trying to understand that
there's a lot of studies showing that
it's significant increases but it's hard
to say it's because of smart phones but
it's almost an obvious yeah it's pretty
obvious the the flipside is even though
everybody's now using a smart phone
texting so on
they've become better at you
the smartphone so they're better at
texting and driving
no the better balancing that now this is
a horrible thing to do so if you listen
to this podcast you should listen to it
in your car and keep your eyes on the
road and not text
I think worst was Pokemon when Pokemon
was in its prime I was watching a guy on
the highway playing Pokemon as he was
driving and I know more than one person
two people a guy and I saw a girl do it
once - holding the phone on the steering
wheel playing Pokemon yeah yeah it's
incredible what are you doing Jamie it's
grandpa I'm confused what is this this
grandpa
in Japan he drives around on a bike oh
this guy is 15 phones this guy needs to
find hookers there's people that do this
also in their car with maybe four or
five doing exactly what you're saying
this man needs a better hobby this is
preposterous look at look at his father
he can't see what the fuck's going on in
front of him he spends about $300 a
month to buy virtual currencies in the
game wow that guy's bored or in an
innovative genius in the perspective one
night people misused their innovative
how is he innovative he's just playing a
stupid game while he's driving around
his bike like an asshole well he's back
to the set of a woman thing it's passion
it's the most amazing moment of his life
that's right I'm sure most people are on
my side sensible woman do you think most
people are in your side they think sign
of a woman's greatest asset to a woman
but I was defending Godfather sent to a
woman you were defending Godfather
against me I mean I'm gonna throw you
under the fan okay I'm gonna manipulate
this conversation Jamie can you edit
this in post did you see the video that
just came out yesterday of a Tesla on
autopilot avoiding a crash all right so
yeah I have and there's a lot of exams
quite a few those of course it's like
hard to prove exactly what happened and
where the auto powers involved just like
on the flip side it's hard to prove that
a pilot was involved in the dangerous
stuff but I think by any measure the
media is really negative in terms of
their reporting on Tesla there I think
I think you've talked to this about
before in general and negativity gets
more clicks right right and I think
Tesla negative stuff on Tesla gets a lot
of clicks so and well not Tesla let me
speak more broadly about autonomous
vehicles if there's any fatality any
crash its over-represented it's over
more wrong yeah so I need to me people
who are interested in AI helping save
lives in these systems like autopilot I
feel you carry the responsibility of
being at least as good of a driver you
are when it's under manual control so
don't text and drive
keep your eyes on the road yeah if I say
anything over and over in this podcast
is that yes I'm driving of course is the
other one and so don't drink and drive
but the number one thing is distracted
driving
yeah put your phone down I agree um
listen to some music some classic rock
classic really into yeah yeah click
Creedence put into no like I know no
like it like you've changed the channel
now you're gonna put me in this scent to
look for that Sun comes excited there
you go
I take take my shirt off no that's a
plan Lynyrd Skynyrd course Hendrix
Cornell jerks I have to admit something
I thought about messaging a couple times
I wanted to I play guitar do you yeah
good you can't are you good at jujitsu
yeah I'm good okay come on black belt
I'm pretty good you're a black belt too
I'm sure you good yeah I'm not world
class and I'm always fucking me up
I'm a three-strike purple belt guitar ah
that's a good way of putting it yeah
yeah I see that what about hunting I'm
like a blue belt in hunting yeah yeah
yeah I've been doing it like I got the
purple belt by doing it a long time
mm-hmm as opposed to being amazing did
you take lessons no I learned everything
myself I have a couple of videos online
me playing comfortably numb' did you
learn
from watching videos or did you learn
from books like how did you like let me
see this give me this look at you yeah
it's there it probably won't pick it up
and if it picks it up it'll be to my
channel and I'll be short yeah it's me
playing it's so good it sounds a lot of
people from humming song freeze yeah so
this is this is it no I did not but this
thing get blocked if you were humming a
song yeah and then someone made a claim
on that song it would block our YouTube
like literally we could get D monetized
and put we we lose our streaming will be
lots of things will happen
lots of things like we've we've gotten
flagged for watching something on the
screen picture and picture no sound
commenting on it and we get flagged and
they want all the advertising revenue
from a three hour show for five ten
seconds of a video it's a slightly
broken system oh it's broken but there's
a lot of scam artists too
so I played another song Black Betty oh
yeah and I got I don't know yeah I
played the damn song but they they said
it was it wasn't they did exactly that
oh they said it was the RAM jam or what
everyone said it was there and I may
have borrowed the beat behind it from
them I'm not sure I just don't know
yeah well that's what I was thinking
about that song like it sounded like
there was other shit going on besides
just your guitar mmm oh no that's all me
real it's all made bad the bad we hear
that again that's really good man it
sound good
that's a great fucking song too
comfortably numb' know the scariest
thing for me what to play guitar on this
podcast so it's like going back and
forth oh really I do it said didn't that
do it actually play play play no it was
only a few people that have ever played
play ever last been and Suzanne from
honey honey
Gary Clark didn't write and he just came
out and talked and brought his guitar
I wanted to play Hendrix here really
yeah live what you got it right with you
right now
no I in the tar yeah well no I meant I
was okay sure in the future now I'm not
promise
skin you wear a Hendrix wig with the
bandana is that racially insensitive
though you're allowed to know Joe I will
not take my face
you're allowed okay the hair is like
just you know it's just hair is this not
you can't wear dreadlocks though yes of
those rules but I think you have all the
rules though right it's well he's the
goat you know of guitar players
that's the goat doesn't them you know
the reason why this call this shows
called Aryans yeah yeah it's I stole it
from Jimi Hendrix yeah what's my I don't
remember if we brought this up last time
but I just remembered to see in this
video or you're playing guitar while you
were driving yep well you shouldn't do
that dude it was the reason why it was
doing it why are you doing this on a
test track Oh what kind of car is that
looks like a Lincoln Lincoln MKZ yes sir
oh they do that the Lincoln's do that we
converted it and we that's the our code
controlling the car Wow you know that is
crazy so you converted this car to drive
autonomously honestly Wow and what what
exactly do you have to do to a car to
change like because that car does not
have the capacity to do anything like
that so the right my correct no no no
absolutely not but you are absolutely
correct the there's the first part is
being able to control the car with a
computer which is converting it to be
drive by wire so you can control the
steering and the break in the
acceleration to basically be able to
control with a joystick and then you
have to put laser sensors all around the
cars that we can find a sensor and
software so what's the best kind of
sensor the optical laser a lot of debate
on this and this is the big this is the
Throwdown between Elon Musk and
everybody else oh you know musk says the
best sensors camera everybody else well
everybody else says that at this time
lidar which are these lasers yes is the
best sensor so I'm more on the side in
this case on camera Anil musk so here's
the difference lasers are more precise
they work better
in poor lighting conditions that are
more reliable you can actually build
safe systems today that use lidar the
problem is that they don't have very
much information so we use our eyes to
drive and a camera is the same thing and
they have just a lot more information so
if you're going to build artificial
intelligence systems so the machine
learning systems that learn from huge
amounts of data camera is the way to go
because you can learn so much more you
can see so much more so the the richer
deeper sensor is camera but it's much
harder you have to collect a huge amount
of data it's a little bit more
futuristic so it's longer-term solution
so today to build a safe vehicle you
have to go lidar tomorrow however you
define tomorrow
he almost says this in a year others say
it's 5 10 20 years camera is the way to
go
mmm that's that's the the hard debate
and there's a lot of other debates but
that's one of the core ones it's
basically four camera you if you go
camera like you're doing the Tesla
there's seven cameras in your Tesla
mm-hmm
three looking forward there's all around
so on one looking inside no you have the
Model S yeah yeah so that that one
doesn't have a camera that's look inside
so it's all all cameras plus radar and
ultrasonic sensors that approach
requires collecting huge amounts of data
and they're doing that they drove now
about 1.3 billion miles under autopilot
Jesus yes it's it's a very large amount
of data so you're talking about over
five hundred thousand vehicles have
autopilot 450 I think thousand have the
new version of autopilot autopilot two
which is the one you're driving and all
of that is data so all of those all the
edge cases what they call them all the
difficult situations that occur is
feeding the machine learning system to
become better and better and better and
the open question is how much better
doesn't need to get to get to the human
level performance like one of the big
thing one of the
big assumptions human beings is that we
think that driving is actually pretty
easy and we think that humans suck at
driving those two assumptions we think
like driving it you know you stay in the
lane you style for the stop sign it's
pretty easy to automate and then the
other one is you think like humans are
terrible drivers and so it'll be easy to
build a machine that outperforms humans
are driving now there's that's uh I
think there's a lot of flaws behind that
intuition we take for granted how hard
it is to look at the scene like
everything you just did picked up moved
around some objects it's really
difficult to build an artificial
intelligence system that does that to be
able to perceive and understand the
scene enough to understand the physics
of the scene like all these objects that
it like how to pick them up
the texture of those objects the weight
to understand glasses folded and
unfolded open water bottle all those
things it's common sense knowledge that
we take for granted we think it's
trivial but there is no artificial
system in the world today nor will there
be for perhaps quite a while that can
reason do that kind of common-sense
reasoning about the physical world add
to that pedestrians so add some crazy
people in this room right now to the
whole scene Ryan being able to notice
like what this guy's an asshole look at
him was he doing was he doing get off
the skateboard oh jesus is in traffic
yep and the considering not that he's an
asshole he's a respectable skateboarder
it that in order to make him behave a
certain way you yourself have to behave
a certain way so it's not just you have
to perceive the world you have to act in
a way they have to assert your presence
in this world you have to take risks so
in order to make the skateboard or not
cross the street you have to perhaps
accelerate if you have the right-of-way
and these are that there's a game
theoretic running game of chicken to get
right and you wouldn't even know how to
approach that as a
artificial-intelligence
sort of research community and also as a
society do we want an autonomous vehicle
that speeds up in order to make a a
pedestrian not cross
Street hmm which is what we do all the
time we have to assert our presence if
there's a if there's a person who
doesn't have the right away who begins
crossing we're going to eat the maintain
speed or speed up potentially if we want
them to not cross so that that game
there to get that right that's a
dangerous game for a robot it's for a
robot and for us to be rationally if
that God forbid least a fatality for us
society to rationally reason about that
and think about that I mean a fatality
like that could basically bankrupt the
company there's a lawsuit going on right
now about a an accident in Northern
California with Tesla yeah and are you
aware about yeah that one yeah this was
the circumstances about that one so
there was I believe in Mountain View a
fatality in the Tesla where it this is a
common problem for all all link keeping
systems like like that slaughter pilot
is there was a divider in the highway
and basically the car was driving you
know along Lane and then the car in
front moved to an adjacent Lane and this
divider appeared right so you have to
now steer to the right and the car
didn't and went straight into the
divider oh wow and it's you know the
basically what that boils down to is the
car drifted out of Lane right or didn't
adjust properly to the lane those kinds
of things happen and this is because the
person was allowing the auto pilot to do
everything nope that you can't so we
have to be extremely careful here I
don't know that the really deep details
of the case I'm not sure exactly how
many people do so there's a judgment on
what the people the person was doing and
then there's an ounce of what the system
did right the system did it drifted out
of lane and the question is did the
person was the person paying attention
and was there enough time given for the
person to take over and if they were
paying attention to catch the vehicle
steer back onto the road hmm as far as I
believe the only information they have
is hands on steering wheel and they were
saying that
like half that's half the minute leading
up to the crash the hands weren't on the
steering wheel or something like that
basically trying to infer where the
person paying attention or not but we
don't have the information exactly what
would where were their eyes right you
can only meet guesses as far as I know
again so the the question is this is the
eyes on the road thing because I think
I've heard you on a podcast saying
you're tempted to sort of look off the
road with your new Tesla or at least
become a little bit complacent that's
the yeah we're worried the worries that
you you just rely on the thing that you
would relax too much but what would that
relaxation lead to that the problem is
if something happened if you weren't you
know when you're driving I mean we've
discussed this many times on the podcast
that the reason why people have road
rage one of the reasons is because
you're in a heightened state because
cars are flying around you in your brain
is prepared to make split-second
decisions and moves and the worry is
that you would relax that because you're
so comfortable with that thing driving
everybody that I know that it's tried
that they say you get you really used to
it doing that you get really used to it
just driving around for you so the
question is what be what happens when
you get used to it yeah you start
looking off-road dstyle texting more do
you start watching a movie etc right
that that's a that's a really an open
question and the like for example we
just did it the study published a study
from MIT on what people in our data set
with will collect this data set of 300
thousand miles in Tesla some instruments
all these Tesla's and watch what people
are actually doing and are they paying
attention when they disengaged the
system so there's a really important
moment here we have 18,000 of those when
the person catches the car you know the
disengage autopilot mm-hm and that's a
really Tesla uses this moment as well
that's a really important window into
difficult cases
so some percentage of those some small
percentages about 10% is we call them
tricky situations is situations where
you have to immediately respond like
drifting out of lane if there's a
stopped car in front so on
the question is are people paying
attention during those moments so in our
data set they were paying attention they
were still remaining vigilant now in our
data set the autopilot was quote-unquote
encountering tricky situations every 9.2
miles so you could say it was failing
every 9.2 miles mmm that is one of the
reasons we believe that people are still
paying it because remaining vigilant
that it's regularly and unpredictably
sort of drifting out of lane or
misbehaving so you don't over trust it
you don't become too complacent the open
question is when it becomes better and
better and better and better will you
start becoming complacent when it drives
on the highway for an hour an hour and a
half and is opposed to 9.2 miles make
that 50 miles 60 miles do you start to
over trust it and that's a really open
question do you think or do you
anticipate a time and anywhere in the
near future where you won't have to
correct you will allow the car to do it
because the car will be perfect the car
first of all will never be perfect nor
will ever be perfect autonomous vehicles
will always you think require at least
some sort of manual override
yeah really that's interesting that
you're saying that because you work in
AI like what makes you think that that's
impossible to achieve well let's let's
talk because because you're using the
word perfection I think perfect okay
that's a bad word yeah so you're I guess
you're a but let me see will it achieve
because people are obviously not perfect
will achieve a state of competence that
exceeds the human being and let's put it
in a dark way competence measured by
fatal crashes yes yes I absolutely
believe so and perhaps in the near term
near-term oh yeah five years yeah for me
five ten years is near term for Elon in
Elon Musk time that's converted to one
year have you met him
yes interviewed him recently fascinating
cat right
yep got a lot of weird shit bouncing
around behind those eyeballs you don't
realize until you talk to him in person
you're like oh you got a lot going on in
there man yeah there's this passion
there's Drive I mean it's one of the
hurricane of ideas yeah and focus and
confidence mm-hmm I mean the thing is
and a lot of the things he does which I
admire greatly from any man or woman
innovator
it's just boldly fearlessly pursuing new
ideas or jumping off the cliff and
learning to fly on the way down mm-hmm
that that's I mean well no matter what
happens he'll be remembered as the great
innovators of our time
whatever you say maybe in my book Steve
Jobs was as well even if you criticize
perhaps he hasn't contributed
significantly to the technological
development of the company are the
different ideas they did still his
brilliance was in all the products of
iPhone of the the personal computer of
the Mac and so on and I think the same
is true with with with Elon and yes
there's in this space of autonomous
vehicles of semi autonomous vehicles of
driver assistance systems it's a pretty
tense space to operate in there's
several communities in there that are
very responsible but also aggressive in
their criticism hmm so in driving in the
automotive sector obviously since Henry
Ford and before there's been a culture
of safety of just great engineering
these are like some of the best
engineers in the world in terms of
large-scale production you talk about
Toyota you talk about for GM these
people know how to do safety well and so
here comes along with Silicon Valley
ideals that throws a lot of it out the
window and says we're going to
revolutionize the way we do automation
in general we're going to make software
updates to the car once a week twice a
week over-the-air just like that mm-hmm
that makes people in the safety
engineers and human factors engineers
really uncomfortable like what do you
mean you're going to keep updating the
software of the car without like how are
you
testing it right that makes people
really uncomfortable why does it make
them uncomfortable because the way in
the automotive sector you test the
system mmm you you come up with a design
of the car every component and then you
go through like really rigorous testing
before it ever hits the road I here's an
idea from the Tesla side is where they
basically they in shadow mode test the
software but then they just release it
so essentially the drivers become the
testing mm-hmm and then they regularly
update it to to to adjust a if any
issues arise that makes people
uncomfortable because there's not a
standardized testing procedure there's
not there's not at least the feeling in
the industry of rigor because the
reality is we don't know how to test
software in the same kind of with the
same kind of rigor that we've tasted the
automotive system tested automotive
system in the past so I think it's
extremely exciting and powerful to make
software sort of approach automotive
engineering with at least in part a
software engineering perspective so just
doing what's made Silicon Valley
successful so updating regularly
aggressively innovating on the software
side so your Tesla over-the-air while
we're sitting here could get a totally
new update remember the flip of a bit as
a llama says it can be you can gain all
new capabilities that's really exciting
but that's also dangerous and that that
balance we what's dangerous about it let
it be faulty software faulty a bug so if
your your the apps on your phone you
know fail all the time where as a
society used to software failing we just
kind of reboot the device where we start
the app a most complex software systems
in in the world today if we think
outside of nuclear engineering and so on
there really nobody there too complex to
really thoroughly test so thorough
complete testing proving that the
software is safe is nearly impossible on
most software systems
that that's a that's nerve-wracking to a
lot of people because this that there's
no way to prove that the new software
update is safe so what it what is the
process like do you know like how they
create software they update it and then
they test it on something how much
testing do they do and what how much do
they do before they upload it to your
car yeah so I don't have any insider
information but I have a lot of sort of
public available information which is
they they test the software in shadow
mode meaning they see how the new
software compares to the current
software by running it in parallel on
the cars and seeing if there's
disagreements if like seeing if there's
any major disagreements and bringing
those up and seeing what by parallel I'm
sorry do you mean both programs running
at the same time one the original of the
es at the same time the original update
actually controlling the car mm-hmm and
the new update is just making the same
decision making the same decisions
without them being without editing the
actual okay without actually affecting
the vehicles dynamics and so that's
that's a really powerful way of testing
I think the software infrastructure that
Tesla's built a loss for that and I
think other companies should do the same
that's a really exciting powerful way to
approach not just automation not just
the time most vehicles or semi
autonomous vehicles but just safety is
basically all the data that's on cars
bring it back to a central point to
where you can use the edge cases all the
weird situations in driving to improve
the system to test the system to learn
to understand where the cars used
misused how can be improved and so on
that's extremely powerful how many
people they have that are analyzing
almost data it's a it's a really good
question so they have so the interesting
thing about driving is most of it is
pretty boring nothing interesting
happens so they have automated ways of
extracting again what are called
cases so these weird moments of driving
and once you have these weird moments
they have people annotate it I don't
know what the number is but a lot of
companies are doing this it's in the
hundreds and the thousands basically if
humans annotate the data to see what
happened but most of what they're trying
to do is to automate that annotation so
to figure out how the debt date it can
be automatically used to improve the
system so they have they have methods
for that because it's a huge amount of
data and I think in the recent autonomy
Day a couple of weeks ago at this big
autonomy day where they demonstrated the
vehicle driving itself on a particular
stretch of road they they showed off
that you know they're able to query the
data basically ask questions of the data
saying the the example they gave is
there's a bike on the back of a car the
bicycle in the back of a car and they're
able to say well when the bicycle is in
the back of a car that's not a bicycle
that's just the part of the car and
they're able to now look back into the
data and find all the other cases the
thousands of cases that happened all
over the world in Europe and Asia in
South America and in North America and
so on and pull all those elements and
then train the Train perception system
of autopilot to be able to to better
recognize those bicycles as part of the
car so every edge case like that they go
through hmm saying okay the car freaked
out in this moment let me find moments
like this in the rest of the data and
then improve the system so it's it's a
this kind of cycle is the way to deal
with with problems with failures of the
system
it's to say every time the car fails at
something say is this part of the bigger
set of problems can I find all those
problems and can I improve it with a new
update and that just keeps going the
open question is how many loops like
that you have to take for the car to
become really good better than human so
basically how hard is driving how many
weird situations when you manually drive
do you deal with every day somebody
somebody mentioned
there's like millions of cases when you
watch video you see them somebody
mentioned that they drive a truck
EPS truck and we'll pass cow pastures
and they know that if there's no cows in
the cow pasture that means they're
grazing and if they're grazing I mean
they'd be using the correct terms
I apologize not a car guy that that
means that there may be cows up ahead on
the road there's just this kind of
reasoning it can use to anticipate
difficult situations and we do we do
that kind of reasoning about like
everything cars today can't do that kind
of reasoning they're just perceiving
what's in front of them now outside of
Tesla how many other companies have
autonomous systems that are driving
their cars so maybe it's good to step
back there's several and there's several
leaders in each different approach
so first let's draw a line between the
different types of systems that are okay
one there's fully autonomous vehicles so
these are cars you can think about that
don't have a steering wheel or if they
have a steering wheel it doesn't matter
they're in full control and if there's a
crash the car company is liable do those
exist no okay it's it's a gray area
though because many companies are
basically saying that that's what
they're doing but they're not quite
there so the leader in that space is
used to be called Google self-driving
car program now it's called way mo they
are doing that there it's called
level four level five there's levels to
this game and this is this particular
level where it's fully autonomous now
they're trying to achieve full autonomy
but the way they're doing it currently
is they're testing on public roads with
what's called the safety driver so
there's a driver always ready to take
over and the driver does have to take
over at some rate you know frequently
and so the fact that the driver has to
take over that's not fully autonomous
then right so there's no car today that
you can just get in without a safety
driver so there's nobody behind the
wheel and using your app sort of
from page appointment right but out of
the cars that are semi-autonomous where
there is an autonomous program but you
do have to keep your hands on the wheel
and pay attention to the road now what
what are the leaders
besides Tesla there's Tesla and who else
is doing it so there's yeah there's
several systems it depends how you
define leader but so are they yeah see
this like there's Mercedes and BMW they
use the same system do they did someone
make a system for cars or do they create
their own system yeah that that's a
really good question so there's in some
cases there's mobile I and NVIDIA
there's these companies that Nvidia the
the video card computing car company yep
the same the same folks that power the
quake game right right the the graphics
on the quake game you can use those GPU
graphics processing units to run machine
learning code mm-hmm so they're also
creating the nvidia drive yeah scalable
AI platform for autonomous driving in
fact I don't when did you buy your Tesla
five months ago or something some like
so the thing in there now most likely is
a Nvidia Drive px 2 hmm
so the and that works on cameras that
that just runs code that takes in camera
data but it can work on anything else so
it could work on lidar as well somebody
have a system yeah but it need different
code so the lidar requires very
different kinds of processing very does
anybody use that with cars with all semi
autonomous cars lighter yes the well
okay so semi autonomous we have to be
careful right because the way no cars
like the the quote-unquote fully
autonomous cars are currently semi
autonomous right okay so the there are
the highest level of semi-autonomous
right yeah that guess it's it's not even
a highest level it's a principle it's a
philosophy difference because they're
saying we're gonna do full autonomy
we're just not quite there yet most
other companies they're doing semi
autonomous better called driver
assistance systems is they're saying
we're not interested in full autonomy we
just want a driver assistance system
that
helps you steer the car so let's call
those semi autonomous vehicles or driver
assistance systems the there's several
leaders in that space like one car we're
studying that's really interesting is
Cadillac super Krewe system so GM has
the system it's called super cruise that
I think is the best comparable system to
autopilot today the the key
differentiator there is there's a lot of
little elements but the key
differentiators there's a driver
monitoring system so there's a camera
that looks at you and tells you if your
eyes on the road or not and if your eyes
go off the road for I believe more than
six seconds it starts warning you and
says you have to be you have to get your
eyes back on the road so that's called
driver monitoring that's one of the big
disagreements for example you see me and
Elon and many experts in the field in
Elon and the Tesla approach is that
there should be a driving monitoring
system there should be a camera why does
Elon feel like there shouldn't be I
think his focus the Tesla's focus is on
just improving the system so fast and so
effectively that it doesn't matter what
the driver does that it it you know so
essentially no safety net no safety net
and I think they operate like that in
many ideas that they work with is they
sort of boldly proceed forward to try to
make the car extremely safe now the
concern there is you have to acknowledge
the psychology of human beings that
unless the car is perfect or under our
definition perfect which is much better
than human beings then you have to be
able to you have to be able to make sure
that the people are still paying
attention to help the car out when it
fails and for that you have to have
driving model you have to know what the
car is right now your Tesla only knows
about your presence from the steering
wheel well touching the steering wheel
which is a kind of driving monitoring
system it knows you're there but it's
not nearly as effective at knowing
you're there
cognitively visually you can be tricked
by a clamp
you've seen people do that they had to
develop these clamps that you just put
on the steering wheel it'll hold a phone
and then also tricked the system into
thinking that you're holding all the
wheel yeah you could do a lot of purses
actually work really well don't ask me
how hanging a purse no like shoving a
person really into the somebody who did
that with an orange or something I found
what they said it didn't work maybe
needs to be all the way we're on the
outside of it I think it depends on the
shape of the orange how ripe it is
there's a lot of debate no I the point
is there's ways to trick the system
there's it's not monitoring the driver
that's the point yeah it's not
monitoring and driving a lot of people
believe you need to you you think you
need to make sense yeah I think I think
not just for the safety of the system
but to create an experience like I think
there's value for the car to know more
about you mmm-hmm sort of just like that
what's happening there it's scanning
this guy's eyes that's ignored your
porch it freaks me out
so yeah there's a lot of companies sort
of springing up they're doing computer
vision on the face and so on to try to
detect where you're looking
so what cars have that now the the major
one is the super consistent it's not
many cars a few cars are starting to add
it Europe what's a super Krewe system
that's the GM Cadillac okay they're
trying to so it's in they're super
expensive lineup currently and they're I
think trying to add it to the full
lineup of all so in like Cadillacs what
is that big cruiser that they have now
the big 4-door car the really high-end
ct6 I don't know what it is they have a
new one that's really nice is that what
they're putting in the big sedan that
thing yes I it's pretty I don't know if
that's the C g6 but the the one we're
looking at the CT six yes that's us 2018
CT six yeah it's you know it's a but
they won't add it to their their full
fleet so really interesting have the
same amount of cameras as the Tesla
system does no and it has a very
different philosophy as well in another
way which is it only works on very
specific roads on interstate highways
there's something called OD
operational design domain so they they
define that this thing super cool system
only works on this particular set of
roads and they're basically just major
highways the Tesla approach is saying
they were basically what Elan jokingly
referred to as a GD right is it works
basically anywhere so if you try to turn
on your autopilot you can basically turn
out anywhere or the cameras are able to
determine either lane markings or the
car in front of you mm-hmm and so that's
a very different approach saying you can
basically make your work anywhere or in
cattle a case making work on only
specific kinds of roads so you can test
the heck out of those roads you can map
those roads so you can use actually
lidar to map the full road so you know
the full geometry of all the the
interstate highway system they can
operate on and then just also coordinate
with GPS where SOTA understands where
like bumps in the road might be or Hills
in that sense according to GPS for
different curvature information but not
the topography the know and like
construction is a big one that would be
crazy for new potholes
you know I well potholes isn't a big
problem I think construction is the big
problem like just this quickly changing
dynamic information which like apps like
Waze provide I mean that puddles are a
pretty big problem in Boston oh yeah no
for sure but New York is actually
probably even worse I blew out two tires
in one day in New York on potholes it's
not an unlucky day yeah but the I'd
rather you blow out your tire for sure
then then I mean the the kind of
fatality that happened in in the
mountain view with Tesla I believe is
slightly construction related so I mean
there's a lot of safety critical events
yeah I would like if that stupid Tesla
could figure out the hole in the ground
know so I didn't have to blow a tire out
come on bro feel your pain Joe figure it
out but priorities I'll uh I'll make
sure I'll forward this podcast to you
lines remember they work on this I think
he's busy yeah what is this Jaime Tesla
auto pot will be able to avoid potholes
in the road says Elon Musk haha
motherfuckers on top of shit
what's the date on that April April 7th
okay
just now yeah and that's an interesting
thing that's another that's almost an
ethical question whether you want a car
to avoid a situation by swerving right
because when you swerve you now
introduce as opposed to sort of breaking
the vehicle you're swerving into another
Lane means you might create a safety
situation elsewhere you might put
somebody else in danger yeah that's why
I was saying if it coordinated with GPS
it would have previous knowledge you
know sort of like Waze tells you where
the cops are yep you know I mean so that
kind of information would be extremely
powerful and useful the the problem is
it's hard to get it really up to date
that kind of information really up to
date mm-hmm it's just an infrastructure
question just getting the getting the
software the data in place to where the
car will be able to learn quickly from
all the things that are changing I think
potholes don't change that often so that
that's that's a different thing but in
terms of construction zones in terms of
other weird things that change the
dynamics the geometry of the road mm-hmm
that's that's difficult to to get right
so Cadillacs doing a version of it but
it sounds like it's a little bit less
and less involved less comprehensive
maybe this is a better way of drama yeah
unless I would say it's more safety
focused as a sort of what's the right
word to use here it's more cautious
mm-hmm in its implementation so GM again
has has a tradition for better for worse
just like Jamie do they have on their
website and discipline problems showing
you shows like it's a signal coming on
oh wow the green a attention lady she's
too hot it's not paying attention
looking at people staring at her no
comment one of the one of the things
that you it's hard to talk about without
actually experience in the system is
what's more important than driving
monitoring and any of the details we
talked about is like how the whole thing
feels the whole thing together how its
implemented the whole interface and the
the catalog system was actually done
really well in a
that there's a clarity to it like
everything becomes there's a green color
and a blue color and you know exactly
when the system is on and when it's off
that's one of the big things people
struggle with is just confusing in in
other cars drivers not being able to
understand when the system is on or off
oh all right so you think the system is
doing it and then just slam into
something yet it wasn't even on now when
this car is operating in this manner how
many cameras is it using you know that's
a good question I should know that but I
think it's only forward to facing
cameras as far as I know I think it's
two cameras it may be three cameras tell
it just sat back so she doesn't have her
hands on the wheel at all yep so she's
watching right because the car is able
to see where the eyes are
it's a hands-off system so you're a lot
to take your hands off the wheel mm-hmm
it's very interesting it's uh and there
are certain human behavior aspects that
come into play to this so you start to
like I found myself actually becoming a
little more drowsy with this system I
haven't driven it enough so I haven't
gotten used to it but you have to at
least in the initial stages it kind of
forced you to look at the road in in a
way that felt artificial I think it's
something that gets better with time you
get used to it but it's almost like a
game a fide thing that the car when you
look off-road starts to tell you that
you're looking off-road so you kind of
psychologically pressure to always stare
at the road and you realize that
actually when you drive you often look
around and so having to like stare
forward can be a little bit yeah exactly
you start I think there's something
useful and hypnotic about those lanes
just coming at you and just the lines
yeah why is that that confuses a shit
out of me because I could not be tired
at all but if it's nighttime I'm on the
highway and those lines they just start
to yeah take you to dream land
I get the same with there's also just
the vibration is that like that that hum
of driving same with trains you know
yeah planes as well yeah puts me out
so that that there's a Cadillac system
that's the big leader I would say in the
driver monitoring and then Tesla is the
no driver monitoring and huge data
collection BMW has a system as well to
use yeah BMW what do they use them I
don't I don't want to speak too much to
the details they have lane keeping
system so basically systems that keep
you in the lane that is similar to what
in spirit autopilot is supposed to do
but is less aggressive and how often you
can use and so on if you look at the
performance of the of the actual how
often the system is able to keep you in
Lane autopilot is currently the leader
in that space and they're also the most
aggressive innovators in that space so
they're like really pushing it to
improve for them further and the open
question is the worrying question is if
it improves much more are there going to
be effects like complacency like people
will will take we'll start texting more
we start looking off-road more that's a
it's an a totally open question and
nobody knows the answer to that really
and there's a lot of folks that
convention in the safety engineers and
human factors community so these
psychology folks who have roots and like
aviation that know there's there's been
70 years of work that looks at vigilance
that people if I force you to sit here
and monitor for something weird
happening like radar operators in the
world war two had to watch you know for
the dot to appear if I sit you behind
that radar and make you do it after
about 15 minutes but really thirty
minutes you'll see your rate of being
able to detect any problems will go down
significantly you just kind of zone out
hmm and so there's like all kinds of
psychology studies that show that we
just wear crappy human beings are really
crappy at monitoring automation mmm if I
tell you if I put a robot and you just
say monitor this system so it doesn't
kill anyone you'll you know - now we
have to be engaged you have to be
engaged you have to be you know there
has to be a dance attention come we
don't have a mode for watching
autonomous things right if you consider
historically the kind of modes that
people have for observing things we
don't really have a mode for making sure
that an autonomous thing does its job
yeah it's sort of mindset it's not like
oh you know to me like you fit my car
okay I'm driving here we go driving a
turn I'm thinking I'm in driving mode
when you're in autonomous mode and
you're observing you just like what is
this I've never done this before this is
fucking weird it feels weird it's not
part of human nature right it's a normal
state one thing it's done commonly in
now is aviation so pilots pilots are
basically MA during fully autonomous
planes yeah that's a good point as far
as I know mainly planes today could fly
almost fully autonomously it's also a
good point when it comes to software and
updates because isn't that part of the
issue with this Boeing 737 active system
yeah these systems that they've had
problems with they've been faulty and a
couple have crashed
yeah and that that's a really good point
and they they've yeah there's been two
tragic crashes recently with with the
Mac system and if they bench those
things right haven't they
I'm not following they also got rid of a
bunch of inspectors I think they fired
like 80 inspectors today and the unions
are freaking out yep
there's obviously this politics have joy
is I think FA is supposed to supervise
and there were there was there's a close
relationship between Boeing and FAA
those questions around I mean there's
better experts at that than me but on
the software side it is worrying because
it was a single software update
essentially that helps prevent the
vehicle of the vehicle the airplane from
stalling so if if it's if the nose is
tilting up increasing chance of stalling
it's going to automate automatically
point the nose down of the airplane and
the the pilots in many cases as far as I
understand weren't even informed of this
update right there they weren't even
told this happening the idea behind the
update is that they're not supposed to
really know it's supposed to just manage
the flight for you right the problem
happened when there's a
angle-of-attack sensor so the sensor
that tells you the actual
tilt of the plane and there was a
malfunction in that sensor as far as I
understand in both planes and so the
plane didn't actually understand its
orientation so the system started
freaking out started pointing the nose
down aggressively and the pilots were
like trying to reach stabilize the plane
and couldn't so shortly after liftoff
they're just wrong
yeah that's software update that's crazy
and that that that's that's a safety
culture that's dealing with this new
world of software that we don't know
what to do with you know and and yeah
it's a question one way is to be sort of
a little bit Luddite I used the term
carefully and just be afraid and say you
know what we should really not allow so
many software updates the other one is
sort of embracing it and redefining what
it means to build safe AI systems in
this modern world with updates multiple
times a week what do you think oh no so
I'm a hundred percent for the for the
software approach so I think updates
regular updates so combining the two
cultures but really letting good
software engineer on lead the way is the
way to go there's I wish other companies
were competing with Tesla on this there
on the software side Tesla is far ahead
of everyone else in in the automotive
sector and that's one of the problems I
I'm worried that you know competition is
good right and I'm worried there's
people wait too far behind to actually
give Tesla new ideas
I'll compete Tesla on software so most
cars are not able to do over-the-air as
far as I know no cars are able to do
major over-the-air updates except Tesla
vehicles hmm they do over-the-air
updates to the entertainment system like
you know if your radios malfunctioning
but in terms of the control of the
vehicle you have to go to the dealership
to get an update Tesla is the only one
that over-the-air like it can multiple
times a week do the update I think that
should be a requirement for all car
companies but that requires that they
rethink the way
build cars that's really that's really
scary when you manufacture over a
million cars a year in Toyota and GM to
say especially old-school Detroit guys
and gals that are like legit car people
to say we need to hire some software
engineering that's a challenge it's a
totally you know I don't know how often
you've been Detroit but there's a
culture difference in Detroit and
Silicon Valley
and those two have to come together to
solve this problem so I have like the
adult responsibilities of Detroit how to
do production well manufacture how to do
safety well how to test the vehicles
well and do the bold crazy innovative
spirit of Silicon Valley which you know
a musk in basically everywhere
represents and that I think that will
define the future of these of actually
AI in general I mean interacting with AI
systems just even outside the automotive
sector
it requires these questions of safety of
AI safety of how we supervise a system
how we manage them from misbehaving and
so on
we're also there's a concern about those
systems being vulnerable to third party
attacks yeah so hacking yeah this that's
a that's a fascinating question I think
there is a whole discipline called
adversarial machine learning in AI which
basically any kind of system you can
think of how we can feed it examples how
we can add a little bit of noise to the
system to fool it completely so there's
been demonstrations on Alexa for example
where you can take you can take you can
feed noise into the system that's
imperceptible to us humans and make it
believe you said anything so fool the
system into thinking the ordering extra
toilet paper I don't know in the same
for cars you can feed noise into the
cameras to make it believe that there is
or there isn't a pedestrian and then
there is or there isn't lane markings so
someone could do this in theory at least
in in theory that's the big difference
is in theory is doable you can do
demonstrations in practices
really difficult to do in the real world
so in the lab you can do it you can
construct a situation where a pedestrian
can wear certain types of clothing or
put up a certain kind of sign where they
disappear from the system I have to ask
you this to know just remember this
you'd be the perfect person to talk
about this I'm not sure if you remember
this case but there was a guy named
michael hastings michael hastings with a
journalist and he was i believe in iraq
or afghanistan him somewhere overseas
and he was stuck there because of this
volcano that erupted and I believe
Iceland and he was over there for the
Rolling Stone magazine and doing doing
an article about a general well he
stayed there for a long time because
they were stranded because of the
volcano and they got real comfortable
around him and he reported a lot of the
stuff that they said and did that maybe
they thought that he probably wouldn't
have reported on including them saying
disparaging things about President Obama
at the time anyway comes back the
general was forced to resign he was a
beloved general and michael hastings was
in fearing for his life because he
thought that they were going to come and
get him because these people were very
very angry at him he wound up driving
his car into a tree going 120 miles an
hour and the car exploded and the engine
went flying and people that were the
conspiracy theorists were saying they
believed that that car had been rigged
to work autonomously or that someone for
some third party bad person decided to
or good person depending on your
perspective decided to drive that guy's
car into a fucking tree at 120 miles an
hour do you think that that and this is
2011 michael hastings death 12 maybe
2012 let's see what it says 2013 do you
think that in 2013 that would have been
possible
it's entirely possible no I just wanted
to say that haha shout-out to the Joe
Rogan subreddit okay check that one off
the list
Jeannie pull that up check that off I
whether it's possible it's an
interesting question whether it's likely
is another question
III think it's very unlikely and but the
other most important question is that's
something we should worry at scale about
our future it's cars being used to
assassinate essentially people I'm
Russian so I've heard of those things
being done by our friend Putin over
mm-hmm
I think I think it's very unlikely that
this kind of thing would happen in scale
that people would use this I think there
would be more effective ways to achieve
this kind of end for sure and I just
think it's a very difficult technical
challenge that if hacking happens it
would be at a different level than
hacking the AI systems it will be just
hacking software right and the hacking
software is the kind of the kind of
thing that can happen with anything an
elevator saw elevator software or any
kind of software that operates any
aspect of our lives could be hacked that
same kind of right my question though
was in 2013 was that technology
available where they could take over
someone's car do you know what car it
was Mercedes I think it was an S Class C
250 C c-class it's but yes yes yes but I
I don't think oh boy this is like no
listen this has been widely speculated I
know I'm just asking you because you're
actually an expert I mean it's very rare
that you get an expert in autonomous
vehicles and you get to run a conspiracy
theory by them to see if they can just
put a stamp on it being possible or not
let me just say that Alex Jones is
officially not allowed to say MIT
scientists says
that's exactly what you're going to try
to do know I first of all let me back
off and say I am NOT a security expert
which is very important difference that
is important yeah so then autonomous
vehicle I build autonomous vehicle
systems I don't know how to make them
extremely robust as security to hacking
attacks and have a lot of really good
friends which are some of the coolest
people I know who are basically hackers
converted to security experts I would
say though loosely speaking I think the
technology was there yes for with
physical access to the car to be able to
control it but I don't I think it's
extremely unlikely that's what happened
I see where you're coming from I'm not
asking you whether or not it's likely
that it happened I'm sure you don't even
have much information on the case
because I had explained it to you right
that's right the guy also had some
serious amphetamines in his system they
compared it to crystal meth but the
reality is he was a journalist and most
journalists I want to say most a lot or
on adderall and adderall is essentially
you spend fat amines I mean that's what
it is it's real it's like it's like
next-door neighbors to crystal meth
really is he is it well you said it's
possible they could actually get it to
turn the wheel yes I have to look at the
exact system like it's that
drive-by-wire things and I mentioned
some systems are not it's not so easy to
turn the wheel actually right but it
could get him to just accelerate out of
control he's going like 120 something
miles now and he slammed into a tree
it's entirely possible ah you can't do
it twice the the system's back then
though were far more primitive correct
yeah yeah but it's it's really again the
the attack vectors here the so the the
way you hack these systems I have more
to do with the software low lava
software that can be primitive than the
high-level AI stuff right but my issue
with it was there's no cameras on the
outside of the vehicle like there is on
Tesla of today which has autonomous
driving as an option absolutely so okay
I see your point now so
wouldn't be hacking the system that
perceives the world and a price in the
world it would literally be malfunction
that forces her to not be able to break
controllable right which is a you know
it's a more basic kind of attack and
then control then making the car steer
auto lane yes yes that's a different
that that's what people worry about with
the Thomas vehicles once more and more
you're talking about potentially ten
twenty million lines of source code all
this code and so obviously becomes
amenable susceptible to bugs that can be
exploited to hack the code and so people
are worried legitimately
so that these security attacks would
would lead to these kind of well at the
worst case assassinations but generally
sort of just basic basic attacks basic
hacking attacks on I think it's I think
that's something that people in the
automotive industry and certainly Tesla
is really working hard on and making
sure that that everything is secure
there's going to be of course
vulnerabilities always but I think
they're really serious about preventing
them but in the demonstration space
you'll be able to demonstrate some
interesting ways to trick the system in
terms of computer vision the this all
boils down to that these systems that
actually that are ones that a camera
based are not as robust as our human
eyes are to the world so like I said if
you add a little bit of noise you can
convince it to see anything to us humans
will look like the same Road
like the same three pedestrians cars you
draw like a little person on the camera
lens cameras right you could get down
there with Sharpie that's that's a one
attack vector that is draw stuff but you
jokingly say that but that's the Sun
plays tricks on Cadillacs supercruise
next-generation system will address
camera problem oh well as long as the
next generation addresses that you
fucking assholes the Sun plays tricks on
it so next-gen system is something
you're gonna have to bring that Cadillac
into the dealership
and they're gonna have to update the
song update it yeah whereas tests will
just handle that shit over the area yeah
I got an update the other day I was like
all right and the question was so that
that's an exciting powerful capability
but then the bowing the flipside is you
know it can significantly change to be
here the system and there there could be
a glitch there could be a glitch there
could be a bug the bowing ones
terrifying especially with a lot of I
mean that number whatever it's like 300
combined 300 plus people dead maybe even
400 I mean yes I I don't even know how
to think think about that number yeah
all from a software glitch the guy who
coded it or the girl code it must feel
fucking terrible yeah and you kind of
look man it's it's uh it's a lot of
burden and it's one of the reasons it's
one of the most exciting things to work
on actually is the code we write has the
capability to save human life but the
terrifying thing is also has the
capability to take human life and that's
a that's a weird place to be as an
engineer or directly a little piece of
code you know I'll write thousands of
them a day you know basically notes
you're taking could eventually lead to
somebody dying now zero I don't know
anything about coding but do you have
like a is there a spell check
for coding yeah so it's kind of called
debugging it's trying to find bugs and
it's a software that's doing this yeah
software
so there's depending on the programming
language and everybody should if you if
you haven't tried programming you should
try it it's it's cool it's the future
you should learn to program okay that's
my plug you suppose they learn to code
that one scared of it it's a problematic
term I don't actually know why it's the
dumbest fucking problematic code of all
time because someone ridiculously was
suggesting that coal miners could maybe
learn how to code computer code and like
get a different job they could be
trained and so
as someone with the way people were
looking at it like that that was a like
a frivolous suggestion and that it was
ridiculous to try to get someone who was
50 years old it doesn't have any
education in computers at all to change
their job from being a coal miner to
learning how to code so they started
saying it to politicians and people
mocking it but then what Twitter alleged
was that what was going on was it was
being connected to white supremacy and
anti-semitism and a bunch of different
things like people were saying learn to
code and they were putting in a bunch of
these other phrases and my suggestion
would people that's a different fucking
thing like now you have like you look
you have a problem with Nazis and white
supremacists but that's the problems
with Nazis and white supremacist what
someone is just saying learn to code
mocking this ridiculous idea that you're
going to teach you know that's a that's
a legitimate criticism of someone's
perspective that you're gonna get a coal
miner to learn how to fucking and do
computer coding it's crazy it's a it's
so people getting banned for that
rightly so people were furious the way
Google described it to me and Tim Poole
and we were discussing it was that at
Google I mean excuse me Twitter the way
Twitter described it was that
essentially they were dealing with
something where they were trying to
censor things at scale there was there
was so many people and there's so much
going on that it's very difficult to get
it right and that they've made mistakes
I think that's the fast one of the most
fascinating applications of AI actually
is filtering trying to manage puter
learning also using machine learning to
manage this huge conversation you
talking about 500 I believe it's 500
million tweets a day something like that
and Jaime makes at least 331 I was i
with this conversation I saw this
recently I don't know who did the data
on this but there's a statement someone
put on Twitter that said that of let me
see if I can word it correctly it was 22
percent of adult Americans are on
Twitter well alright so that's like
that's like a fact one of that 10%
make up 80% of the tweets created by
adult Americans 2% of the people on
Twitter make up 80% of the tweets yeah
that make sense yeah a lot of people are
arguing aggressively and the question
how to manage that and you can't manage
that but just a manual review of your
three yeah you'd have to have so many
employees yeah that's I think more
likely I don't think jack is lying but
nor is Vidya but I do think that they
have a clear bias against conservatives
and that's being shown so that's an
interesting question I have your friend
my friend and mentor Eric Weinstein yes
talk to me I disagreed with him a little
bit on this I think he basically
believes so there's a bias it boils down
to the conversation that Jack is having
at the at the top level inside Twitter
mm-hmm what what is that conversation
like I think I tend to believe again
this might be my naive nature is that
they have they don't have bias and they
have just they're trying to manage this
in huge flood of of tweets and what
they're trying to do is not buy is not
to remove sort of conservative as a
liberal as and so on they're trying to
remove people that lead to others
leaving the conversation so they want
more people to be in the conversation I
think that's true as well
but I think they definitely are biased
against conservative people there's an
Alexander Alexandra a OC Octavia has an
AOC is good Cortez is the last one is it
Octavia Ocasio that's right okay I'm
sorry
Alexander AOC sorry I just I'm thinking
I wasn't planning on talking about her
but there was a parody account and
someone was running this parody account
which was very mild just a humorous
parody account they were banned
permanently for running it and then
their own account was banned as well
whereas you know there's some
of people or liberal people that post
all sorts of crazy shit and they don't
they don't get banned at the same rate
it's really clear that someone in the
company whether it's up for manual
review whether it's at the discretion of
the people that are employees when
you're thinking about a company that's a
Silicon Valley company you are in
without doubt you're dealing with people
that are leaning left there's so many
that lean left in Silicon Valley the
idea that that company was secretly run
by Republicans is ridiculous
they're almost all run by Democrats or
progressive people so that the
leadership level there's there's a
narrow mindedness that that that
permeates all Silicon Valley is saying
well the question I think there's a
leaning left that permeates Silicon
Valley I think that's undeniable I think
it's undeniable I mean I think if you
had a poll the people that work in
Silicon Valley where their political
leanings are I think it would be by far
left I think would be the vast majority
does that mean that affects their
decisions well what's the evidence well
it's kind of shows as it does you know
it's they're they're not treating it
with a hundred percent clarity and and
you know across the board accuracy or
fairness rather I think that there's
absolutely people that work there that
lean and there's been videos where
they've captured people that were
Twitter employees talking about it
talking about how you do that how you
make their you know fight you find
someone who's using Trump talk or you
know saying sad at the end of things and
someone who's talking he's gonna you
know that certain characteristics they
look for
he's been video so what is that project
Veritas well that guy got his employees
got undercover footage of Twitter
employees talking about that kind of
stuff
question is how much power do those
individuals have how many of individuals
are there like that I are that are those
people exaggerating their ability and
what they do at work or they are they
talking about something that used to go
on but doesn't go on anymore I don't
know I don't work there I think it boils
down to I I'm one of those people that
believes it's it boils down to little
leadership some people at the top set
the culture and the culture has to be
it cannot be this kind of Silicon Valley
narrow-minded sort of left-leaning
thinking even if you believe even if
you're hardcore liberal you cannot when
you operate the come when you drive and
manage a conversation in the entire
world you have to think about middle
America you have to think about you have
to have fundamental respect for human
beings who voted for Trump
it is a concerning thing for me to see
just a narrow mindedness of in all forms
one of the reasons I enjoy listening to
this podcast is you're pretty
open-minded that open-mindedness is
essential for leaders of Facebook and
Twitter people who are managing
conversations I think so too I think
it's I think it's a sort of it the
thought of being open-minded and in
acting in that ethic is probably one of
the most important things that we could
go forward with right now
because things are getting so greasy
it's so slippery on both sides and we
are at this weird position that I don't
recall ever in my life there being such
a divide between the right and the left
in this country I don't it's more more
vicious more angry more hateful it's
different than at any other time in my
life and I think a lot of our ideas are
based on these narratives that may or
may not even be accurate and then we
support them and we reinforce them on
either side we reinforced them on the
Left we reinforced them on the right
where if you're looking at reality
itself and you don't have these clear
parameters and these clear ideologies I
think we're way most of us are way more
in the middle than we think we are most
of us are we just don't want racists
running the country
we don't want socialists giving all our
money away we don't want to pay too much
in taxes to a shitty government we don't
want schools getting underfunded we all
you know and then we decide what what
does my team like the team that I the
shit that I like is that this team well
not everything but they got a lot of
things so I'll go with them maybe I'm
not a religious nut but I'm fiscally
conservative and I don't like with
Democrats like to spend money I'm gonna
go with the Republicans you know maybe
you know maybe I'm you know more
I'm more concerned with the state of the
economy and the way we trade with the
world than I am with certain social
issues that the Democrats embrace so
I'll lean that way even though I do
support gay rights and I do support this
I do support all these other progressive
ideas there's way more of us in that
boat there's way more of us that are in
this middle of the whole thing for sure
but there it goes up and down so all of
us I'm oh I hope I am open-minded most
of the time but you have different moods
hope for sure yeah and the question is
this is where the role of AI comes in
does the AI that recommends what tweets
I should see what Facebook messages I
should see is that encouraging the
darker parts of me or the the Steven
Pinker better angels of our nature like
is it what stuff is it showing me
because if it shows me stuff that like
if the AI trains purely unclicks it
mates start to learn when I'm in a bad
mood and point me to things that might
be upsetting to me yeah and so
escalating that division and escalating
this vile thing that can be solved most
likely with people training a little
more jujitsu or something this Facebook
algorithm that encourages people to be
outraged because accidentally not even
on purpose but this is what engages
people with this is what gets clicks so
they find out oh well he clicks on
things when he finds other people are
anti-vaccination or he clicks on things
when he finds out you know but would it
fill in the blank with whatever the
subject is and then you get these
motherfuckers you know this is a reason
why measles are spreading and you start
getting an angry I mean the anti-vaxxers
on Facebook I don't know if you ever dip
into those waters for a few minutes yeah
and watch people fight back and forth
and in fury and anger you know it's it's
another one of those things that becomes
a extremely lucrative subject for any
social media empire if you're if you're
all about getting people to engage and
that's where the money isn't advertising
yeah getting people to click on the page
and the ads are on those page you get
those clicks get that money if that's
how the system is set
and I'm not exactly sure how it is cuz I
don't really use Facebook but that's
what it benefits I mean that's what
that's what it gravitates towards
gravitates towards controversy so and
and when we think about concern for AI
systems we talk about sort of terminator
I'm sure we'll touch out it but I think
of Twitter as a whole as one organism
mmm that is the thing that worries me
the most is the artificial intelligence
that is very kind of dumb and simple
simple algorithms that are driving the
behavior of millions of people right and
and together the kind of chaos that we
can achieve I mean that algorithm has
incredible influence in all society
Twitter our current president is on
Twitter so much yeah all day all night
the the I mean it's scary to think about
we talked about autonomous vehicles
leading to a fate to have one fatality
to fatality it's scary to think about
what the difference being that in the
Twitter algorithm I mean I could start
wars it really could and that if you
think about the long term if you think
about is one AI organism that is a super
intelligent organism that would have no
control over mm-hmm and I think it all
boils down honestly to the leadership to
Jack to and other folks like him making
sure that he's open-minded it goes
hunting that he goes does some jujitsu
that he eats a meat and sometimes goes
vegan right you know he did just a
10-day talk less retreat we don't talk
it all for 10 days he also eats one like
he does I follow some of the data that
him eats once a day mm-hmm I've done
that and fasts all through the weekend
which I don't I don't I've never done
that but I've done so I've done quite a
few 24-hour you know where I eat at 7:00
p.m. I'm done eating I don't touch food
until 7:00 p.m. the next day it's just
water or coffee why do you do it by the
way yeah I do it to shock my system I
think it's good for your system you know
there's been a lot of research on
fasting and the effect it has on
telomeres dr. Rhonda Patrick spoke
pretty recently there's been quite a few
things that she's written
about in terms of fasting the benefits
of fasting intermittent fasting is great
for weight loss but just fasting itself
even for several days most people seem
to get some pretty decent benefits out
of it
so I dabble in it I also like the way it
makes me feel to be a little hungry I
think my brain is sharper like I refused
to go on stage full eye when I wanted to
stand up and I actually learned this
from a Katt Williams interview he was
talking about it and he's crazy as fuck
but he's hilarious and he's one of the
greats in my opinion and he was in the
back of a limo and he was talking about
how he prepares for a show that he has
his music that he listens to pre-show
music is like a music list and then he
have a drink no food won't eat because
it slows you down I was like the slow
you down but sometimes you don't even
think of it it's not like a rule so you
just man I'm hungry I'll just eat I
would way around there cuz I can go
through a couple of shows I used to
think I used to have this fault the idea
that if I didn't eat I would be
exhausted to do things but then I
workout fasted every morning every
morning when I when I get my morning
workout in and whatever the fuck it is
it's usually hard
I'm always fasted you could do a lot
it's you're not it's not at your best
like if I was gonna do jujitsu I don't
do jujitsu fasted I would I would eat
some fruit that's an interesting one
because that was the transformational
thing for me I used to do powerlifting
you see like five times a day six times
day whatever more like Ct Fletcher style
yeah see how big he was yeah back on the
grill he's only maybe like my height or
half inch taller so I said he was 320
pounds
nobody said 315 fuck he was so big yeah
you're saying it like had trouble the
thing is when you get that big and I
wasn't that big but it's like hard to
move oh yeah it's like not healthy if
you see the image of him from yesterday
I didn't see the image the way he when
he Jamie put up a photograph of him at
315 pounds next to him at like two ish
200 dishes like it's it's incredible how
big he was I mean everything with his
like his arms were my legs and they were
just coming out of his shoulders so that
was a
big moment for me areas there's the
pictures how big he was when he was a
world champion I mean just insanely huge
Wow
yeah so when you started training in
jiu-jitsu you look up in the blonde on
the right dude he's 50 look at that huh
all natural - all natural at 50 crazy
some fucking genetics son that's some
good words oh yeah obsessive not just
hard work I mean you have a fucking
maniac but the fact that his body holds
up like that at 50 is incredible
yeah he's an inspiration well I got for
me switching from that to jujitsu I
thought there's no way cuz I trained
hard I train twice a day
jiu-jitsu for a while and are you doing
two rolls a day were you doing like
technique and drills one at one time I
was I said I'm Russian I'll just drill
so hard I'm upset no no no no Russian
drilling let me explain to you something
no chemical okay what do you want
explain to me I'm trying to explain to
you the difference in Russian and
American America is in wrestling and a
lot of in a lot of combat sports is like
heart and guts and hard work mm-hmm
/ and Russian is certainly in wrestling
his technique is drilling they put a lot
more hours than Americans do at less
than 100 percent effort so like really
drilling they're really getting that
right like I love that in fact one of
the problems is I haven't been able to
really ever found I was always the last
one to get bored really oh you gotta
find a good drilling partner like an
obsessed one yeah a shout out to Sarah
block a Juke judo lady as a black belt
in jujitsu as well that was willing to
put up with like hundreds or thousands
of throws that we each did hmmm so like
that that obsessive - yeah I love that
kind of stuff because I think that's
where you get better yeah that's where I
so not everybody believes that people
some people believe especially gg it's
like you can't really get timing from
drilling I believe you can get
everything from drilling oh the timing
the the because is long the other part
it's not just a Mohs drilling it's your
mind is in it your brain should be
exhausted by the end of it too
because you're visualizing the whole
thing you're like going through
you're imagining how your opponent would
it's really strengthening your
imagination while you're also doing that
Charlie I couldn't agree more
yeah III firmly believe you can get
better way better drilling and when I
went from I think blue belt to purple I
did like the most drilling that I ever
did ever and that's when I grew the most
that's when my technique got way better
that was also when I became friends with
Eddie Bravo and Eddie Bravo is a huge
driller huge ocean rills man they drill
like crazy and they do a lot of live
drills and they do a lot of pathway
drills where they'll do like a whole
series of movements and then escape and
then the reversal and they're like these
are long pathways so that when you're
actually in a scrap and you're rowing
you you recognize it like okay here it
is I'm passing the guard I move it to
here and now he's countering me but I'm
setting up this and these pathway drills
there's it's so critical because it
comes up over and over and over again
when you're actually live rolling you
know you feel it you feel like oh I've
been here before I know this is I'd be
curious actually to hear I don't think
I've ever heard you talk about how your
game is my game changed significantly
from white belt to Bluebell to proto
vault it started to solidify but I'd be
curious to hear like what how did you
game change since you met Eddie
it gave me in jujitsu but my most of my
game came from Eddie like 99 point
something percent of it almost all of it
in John Jacques those two so it's like I
was a blue belt before I was friends
with anybody I was terrible like what
guard do you prefer for example well I
do rubber guard I'm very flexible so
rubber guard is no issue with me and I
think it's incredibly effective I think
if you're good at it and you know you
get stuck under a guy like what is it
named Jeremiah Vance is uh Eddie's one
of Eddie's black belts who's a murderer
from his back his rubber guard is insane
it's insane Eddie's rubber guards insane
I mean he you know obviously tapped oily
Gracie has a ridiculous guard caught him
in a triangle but
but there's a lot of people that
understand now a lot of people that know
how to do it it's um it's a real art
form and the thing about it versus other
guards is when you're in a position like
Mission Control and you claim you know
Vinny Magalhaes is phenomenal at it I
mean he what's that video yeah watch it
this is Jeremiah Jeremiah Vance is one
of Eddie's best we'll get this from the
bottom BAM he does that all the time
triangle from the bottom off from upper
guard that guy's wrapped up that's what
that's out cold
he does this all the time he's one of
Eddie's best rubber guard assassins and
if you watch his technique in his
fucking sensational he also has great
leg locks too but the thing is that you
know when he'll attack from his legs and
he'll tap people with a leg lock but if
they escape sometimes they'll escape and
this distance in deep shit right here
but now he's gonna take his back but if
they escape oftentimes he's on the
bottom and when you're on top em it's
one of the worst places in the world to
be his guard is fucking incredible and
it's because of that see that grip see
how he's holding the rubber guard in
position that's a control mission
confirm mission control mission control
from a guy like Jeremiah is fucking
ruthless because he has his arm and his
legs that's controlling your neck in
your posture it's just and then he's
going to a go-go here and he's
phenomenal with this - he's gonna get
him in a gogoplata or normal Plata I was
gonna flip him over and now he's
attacking the leg like it's just
constant and he ever ends this kind of
system well he invented the initial
stage of like setting up mission control
and don't this guy he's getting fucked
up oh my god that's horrible but Eddy
invented a series of pathways from
Mission Control to set up various
techniques arm bars triangles all these
different things but there had been
people that had toyed with doing hi
garlic Nino Schembri he did a lot of
like like rubber guard ask stuff there
was a lot of things that people did but
Eddy has his own pathway in his own
system and then there's a lot of guys
that branched off from that system like
Jeremiah like Vinny Magalhaes that have
their own way that they prefer to set
various techniques up to but
it's really good about that if you have
the flexibility is that your when you're
on the bottom it's not only is it not a
bad place to be but you could put some
in some real trouble when you have your
ability you're holding on to your ankle
and using your leg which is the
strongest fucking limb in your body
right pulling down on someone with your
leg clamping down with your arm and then
you get your other leg involved good
luck yet know that good luck
it fucking sucks man you have control
but you're also able to move at the same
time exactly really does anybody ever
puts you in Mission Control before no I
haven't competed or against many but
even in like someone in class like show
it to lower ranks have yeah once you
feel it you go oh shit I remember it
being you know when somebody does a nice
move on you especially like a lower rank
your first reaction is like oh this
would never legs you're annoyed yes it's
it's the natural process of the ego
course getting rid of you know you see
something new and you're like yeah this
is stupid if I next time it won't work
but then you start to understand a
little more I remember it being really
powerful controlling position it's
powerful and if you have a good
offensive attack from there it's
powerful as well so there's their
transitions especially a guy like
Jeremiah who's really flexible you know
he can pull off go-go plotters and all
sorts of other things
local Plata's it's another one that they
do is one that you push with your other
foot on the heel it's so nasty you're
holding the back of the foot across the
back of the neck and so your shin is
underneath someone's throat and then
you're pushing that shin with your other
heel while you're squeezing with your
arm it's ruthless yeah is ruthless you
know and they do a gable grip around the
head when they do this as well sometimes
too so it's just a fucking awful place
to be so it's not as good as being on
top right if you have a crushing top
game that's the best if you can get to
that position but you can't always get
to that position so there's guys like
Jeremiah that even from the bottom their
horrific dangers are yes dangerous is
from the top for most people I do you
find just when you trained back in the
day and you still train do you spend
more time on bottom or top
you always should start I feel like you
should always start on the bottom earn
the top position this is something that
Eddie always brought up too because you
know if you like to like it's fun to be
on top so a lot of times it's like this
mad scramble to see who could force who
onto their back right because when
you're on top you can control them you
can pressure them you know you play that
strongman jiu-jitsu but the problem is
the strongman is reduced so I'm only 200
pounds I'm not a big guy like so if you
go to the real big guy like I'm rolling
with a 240 pound guy I'm not gonna get
to that spot yeah like I better have a
good guard otherwise I can't do anything
right
when someone's bigger than you and
stronger than you you mean that's what
hoist crazy basically proved to the
world like as long as you have technique
it doesn't matter where you are but if
you only have top game which a lot of
people do a lot of people only have top
game you know you're kind of fucked if
you wind up on your back we see that a
lot with wrestlers in MMA as wrestlers
they can get on top of you and they'll
fuck you up they'll strangle you there
take your back they'll beat you up from
the mount but they don't have nearly the
same game when they're on their back and
then this guy's like Luke Rockhold it's
like an expert at keeping you on your
back he's when he's one of those guys
when he gets on top of you you're fucked
he's got a horrible top game I mean
horrible I'm sense of if you're his
opponent he's gonna beat the fuck out of
you before he strangles you his top game
is insane yeah I hate the feeling some
people make you just feel the weight no
make you suffer for everything you do on
bottom yo so people that are able to do
that truly humbling yeah wrestlers in
particular wrestlers are so good you see
that Jordan burrows Ben Askren match
last night
fuck incredible how good is that guy
Jordan Baz sure as one I mean do that to
a guy like Ben Askren I mean it shows
you Ben isn't competed I think in nine
years room but Ben is one of the
greatest I mean I'm a huge fan of his
wrestling it's not interesting I think
that is like the worst matchup for an
Oscar and I think because you're taking
one of the most creative wrestlers ever
in Ben Askren I don't want to over over
overstate it but he
as incredibly creative one of the great
pinning wrestlers so he pins people he
like confuses them and pins them
incredibly well and you you put him
against basically a freak
blast double like the greatest double
leg takedown maybe of all time there's
like somebody put a clip up that said is
this it so when you put a clip oh shit
he went off the fucking mat into the
crowd that's pretty that was like best
part is that he defended a takedown that
was the best part but that's crazy man
that they they have such a drop-off with
these guys like you shouldn't really
have a platform like that where a guy
can fall off into the crowd that seems
so stupid it rarely happens what the
fuck are you talking about it just
happened rarely happens they rarely have
these it sure this is argument that's a
terrible thing have that shit flat on
the ground that is so dumb I can't even
believe they did I think this whole
match should be contested doesn't count
well I don't I don't you know I think
look that's stupid that's not smart to
have a guy who's a fucking powerhouse of
a blast double hitting you and sending
you flying it that's crazy that is crazy
that they didn't have anything in place
to stop that that's the reason why
wrestling takes place on the ground you
fucking assholes yeah why are you having
people wrestle on a platform that's a
show so the show you can have a show
where thumbs of words on the ground it's
called basketball yeah yeah it's on the
ground you know it was worrying because
Vanessa has an MMA fighter and yeah
right there right there it could have
torn his Lee up Nia part easily
well the silver lining is that he's okay
yeah the silver lining and and we got to
see that you know it's interesting
Jordan Burroughs had on his Instagram
there's levels to this you know they're
raising his hand up and looks like
that's what we got to see cuz Ben is a
phenomenal wrestler but you're right he
hasn't competed in a long time he's not
necessarily at the level that he was
back then even though he's incredible
for MMA standards it's good to see like
it's good it's good to see without with
boxing it's good to see that with
anything like when Floyd Mayweather
fought Conor I think was good to see
that that there are really levels to
this and the interesting thing about
journey are ours I
he's so good that he's probably gonna
stay out of MMA that's so crazy but
there are here's some here's some clips
of it
oh yeah we can't show it to to you
people but uh who put this on flow
wrestling flow wrestling put this on I
wonder if people are pirating it online
or if they they put it online if they're
allowing you know they well people are
pirating it yeah okay yeah good luck
stopping that right well I think people
should support flow wrestling know that
they do have like a I'm a member are you
oh look at this look at this God he's
good yeah man so we're watching this
ladies and gentlemen who were just
listening it's probably boring as fuck
for you but Jordan burrows is one of the
best wrestlers really American champion
three-time world champion yeah
tragically not try it lost in the
previous Olympics and he's back at it
again I wonder if he's ever considered
him a man no you know there was some
talk about but I wonder if we ever
really I think at this point he's he is
basically a no but there are a few
terrifying people especially in the
Russian side that I that I think the
heavyweight division and I'm and UFC
should let you should be really worried
I don't know if you heard about the the
Russian tank the 22 year old from
Dagestan no who's this guy as a wrestler
the wrestler he's gonna fight MMA no
he's a he will after 2020 is what his
expectation is for now he's probably
going to be the greatest wrestler of all
time really him against Kyle Snyder
those two heavyweights as American as
American another guy right here 20 the
tank of dagestan how do you say his name
it says dude alive so alive Abdul Rashid
settle I of 22 years old was she sohow
Schneider you could do Karl Schneider
versus what a great name Abdul Rashid
sat alive for the life that was Russian
Schneider is 23 years old and he's
another incredible person who'll do MMA
and that competition between Schneider
I mean this is look at the look look at
the look at the thickness these guys are
monsters and they're not just how much
these guys were I ninety seven kilograms
what is that to 220 yes yeah
to 2300 to 215 but they cut for it right
runs just under heavy weight do you
think they would compete at 205 if
they're gonna fight in MMA
these are heavy weights because there
might be in the way these are still boys
Oh 22 right right they still haven't
gotten the full like yeah I wonder that
about UFC fighters that are thickening
up as they get older I wonder how many
of them are damaging their body by
cutting weight yeah that's a thick fella
so right now we're just seeing mostly
stalemate and that's from the American
guy and yeah is it a highlight reel of
his or something that we yeah there is
but he is pretty young he's uh I think
he's a he's an Olympic champion and he
goes from the whole line of the sight
ear brothers and the the all the
Dagestani wrestlers there are so many
good fighters that are coming out of
Dagestan right now and all technicians
yeah it's incredible
it's it's incredible what ever is it
styles to like Xabi likes a beat style
very very different then a wrestling
heavy style look at this guy Matt Jesus
Christ oh my god what a scramble so this
is Abdul rush I eat Rasheed Abdul Rashid
Khan said alive
that's no don't tell me how to say it
I'll figure it out I don't know Dora
she'd do her she'd said alive so alive
and you know what the beauty there's a
poetic because yeah there's a poetic
nature to the two these guys I mean
they're just that could be really I mean
there are simple good people mm-hmm
right there they're pretty religious and
they just kind of they don't even
believe in Fame they just believe in
excellence well you know that was sort
of evident and the the mindset behind
them was sort of evident at the end of
that fight with Conor where they went
crazy and he jumped into the crowd it's
like he's not playing games if he's not
he's not doing this for Instagram likes
or for
you know this is really he takes
trash-talking all that stuff very
seriously this is all about honor for
him I think that was kind of upsetting
because true but but don't do that yeah
and do that and also respect I'd hate to
say but I think there's a certain ethic
and honor to the way Conor McGregor
carries himself to all that trash talk
if you look at the end of the fights
he's very kind
he's very kind and respectful in defeat
and when they guess it's a different
culture you compare the Dagestani versus
Irish culture is just a different
culture and you have to respect that
I think khabib to be honest disrespected
Conor's culture as much as kind of
disrespect if he be he I get were you
saying but I mean when he was done with
the fight he didn't keep attacking Conor
it was people in the audience who were
talking shit there were training
partners and motion for that's and he
would he had heard that for weeks and he
was he was done for months he was done
he was like fuck you I beat his ass I'm
gonna beat your ass and he just said I'm
not playing games and he jumped into the
fucking crowd I think security could
have been handled far better and will be
in the future to prevent things like
that from happening where people just
jumped into the cage and you know I but
I I hate seeing that shit but I but I
appreciate where he's coming from I mean
that's who the fuck that guy is man
that's one of the reasons why he's so
good is he does have that mindset it's
one of the reasons meant and one of the
reasons why he's so relentless like he's
not playing games yeah he is who he is
what you see is what you get and what
you get is a killer and he's there to
smash I would have loved to see Conor
McGregor vs. could be could be before
the mayweather fight like before Conor
mmm gotten I think the money makes you
less hungry oh for sure and dude I ain't
hungry at all it's got a hundred million
dollars but I think he still loves to
compete but there's no hunger anymore
again no hunger I mean he might be
hungry for success but he's there's no
desperation yeah I don't know if that's
I know what you're saying like he has a
lot to lose now - it's a different thing
he enters into a fight with a hundred
million
dollars in the bank it's a very
different experience and entering into
the fight and with 1 million and hoping
that you could make 3 more tonight and
you know like many I'm sure fights that
he's had in the past it's a different
world but once whatever he wants forever
I mean once a fighter though I was a
fighter I mean that there is an element
there that he still wants glory I
believe still only 30 yeah right you
still do it yeah I mean he's I think how
old's Conor it the most he's like 32 or
some shit
30 yeah he's young man to be set for the
rest of your life at 30 is kind of
fucking bananas and I don't think he's
at its peak as a fighter so if he just
decides who gives a fuck about the money
I'm just I'm here to leave a legacy and
I'm gonna I'm gonna just train like a
fucking demon and he kicks aside all of
the bad influences and all the
distractions in his life and just
focuses on training me he's a
motherfucker man I mean you saw what he
did to Aldo saw what he did to Chad
Mendes saw what he did to Dustin Poirier
I mean he is a bad motherfucker period I
know you're gonna shut this down as most
fans do but I if he drops everything and
goes to like Siberia to Train
I would love to see him and could be -
well there's nothing but that's my
friend Holland's mollenkamp and Connor
sparring just fucking around powerful on
it logo in the background so I could
goddamn on it yeah I mean he's always
gonna have a problem with kabhi kabhi be
wrestling is so high level it's so
different he smothers you in a way that
you think you have good takedown defense
until you run into that motherfucker and
he just gets a hold of everyone he does
it to everyone was it with your Michael
Johnson or Edson Barboza
no matter how good your takedown defense
looked in the past and the Barbossa
fight it was just basically just
weighted towards him weighted through
the fucking the fury of leg kicks and
punches and just clamp drag smash and
that's what he does to everybody man
yeah the real thing about a guy like him
would be seeing a guy like him against a
guy like Jordan burrows like could he do
that too
guy who was a spectacular wrestler as
well then it becomes mean his striking
which has gotten very high-level he's
very dangerous striking so he dropped
Connor I mean he can he can fuck people
up he stopped there was some he's he
stopped a few people strikes he's
dangerous he's dangerous enough on the
feet that you would have to know how
much how many really high level
grapplers also have like striking that
can stand with them because if he
decided to keep it up he'd have an
advantage there until they you know got
good at it him versus Ben Askren would
be very interesting well he would have
an advantage in striking in in wrestling
I don't know no they're very defensive
big fella two are the same way no oh
he's 55 Oscar in 70 okay okay so I asked
him could probably make 55 if you
tortured him he's got a dad bod though
and he's pretty rude no he's proud dad
he's proud of his body I think he was
that way in college - he was never he's
never like Brock Lesnar no and he was
super technical any strong as hell
though Kourtney to everybody
everybody that rolls of them says he's
fucking ridiculously strong you are
sometimes say artificial life instead of
artificial intelligence yeah because I
think that it's a life form it's a
stupid way to look at it as curious to
think about like how do you think about
artificial like what do you picture I
picture human beings being like
electronic caterpillars that are
building a cocoon that they have no real
knowledge of our understanding and
through this and new life forms gonna
emerge a life form that doesn't need
cells and mating with x and y
chromosomes doesn't need any of that
shit it exists purely in software and in
hardware and in ones and zeros and that
this is a new form of life and this is
when the inevitable rise of a sentient
being the inevitable I mean I think if
we don't get hit with an asteroid within
a thousand years or whatever the number
the time frame is someone is going to
figure out how to
thing that just walks around and does
whatever it wants and lives like a
person that's not outside the realm of
possibility and I think that if that
does happen that's artificial life and
this is the new life and it's probably
gonna be better than what we are I mean
well we are as basically if you go back
and look about you know three hundred
thousand four hundred thousand years ago
when we were some Australia Pittacus
type creature how many of them would
ever look at the future and go just I
hope I never get a Tesla the last thing
I want is a fucking phone last thing I
want it's air conditioning and
television the last thing I want is to
be able to talk in a language that other
people can understand and to be able to
call people on the phone fuck all that
man I like living out here running from
Jaguars and shit and constantly getting
jacked by bears no no I wouldn't think
that way and I think if something comes
out of us and makes us obsolete and but
it's it's missing all the things that
suck about people I mean it won't be
good it wasn't personal you know our and
our things suck about people hate war
violence thievery people stealing things
from people people robbing people the
thing that those dark parts of human
nature I think are the suffering
injustice I think all of that is
necessary for us to discover the better
angels I don't think you can certainly
we can talk let's talk about Saints and
creating artificial life but I think
even those life-forms even those systems
need to have the darker parts but why is
that is that because of our own
biological limitations in the fact that
we exist in this world of animals where
animals are eating other animals and
running there's always you always have
to prepare for evil you have to prepare
for intruders you have to prepare for
you know predators and this is
essentially like this mechanism is there
to ensure that things don't get sloppy
things continue to look if the Jaguars
keep eating the people and the people
don't figure out how to make a fucking
house they get eaten and that's it or
you figure out the house then you make
weapons you fight off the fucking Jaguar
okay great you made it you're in a city
now see you had to have that Jaguar
there in order to inspire you to make
enough safety so that your kids can grow
old enough that they can get information
from all the people that did survive as
well and they can accumulate all that
information and create air conditioning
and automobiles and guns and keep those
fuckin Jaguars from eating your kids
right this is this is what had to take
place as a biological entity but once
you surpass that and once you become
this thing that doesn't need emotion
doesn't need you know doesn't need
conflict it doesn't need to be inspired
it never gets lazy it doesn't have these
things that we have built into us as a
biological system like if you looked at
us as wet we're operating software it's
it's not good software right it's
software designed for cave people and
we're you know we're just trying to
force it into cars and force it into
cubicles but part of the problem with
people and their unhappiness is that all
of these human reward systems that have
been set up through evolution and
natural selection to have these
instincts to stay alive they're no
longer relevant in today's society so
they become become road rage they become
you know extracurricular violence it
became they become depression they
become all these different things that
people suffer from so that's one
perspective yes that basically our
software through this evolutionary
process was necessary to arrive at where
we are but it's outdated at this point
well it's necessary for us to succeed to
succeed in a purely almost a Darwinist
way in the sense that survived evolution
especially since we're so weak I mean
it's really we became this week because
we got so good at protecting ourselves
from all the bad things okay the other
perspective is that we're actually
incredibly strong and this is the best
that the universe can create actually
we're at the height this is where the
height of creation there's there's a
beauty in this tension in this dance
between good and evil between like
happiness and depression
life and death and that through that
struggle that's not just a useful tool
to get us from Jaguars to cities but
that is the beautiful thing that that
that is like what the universe was built
for her mmm that that that is the height
like our current the the the evolution
and the creation that results from it is
the height of creation and is is the end
the way things operate is not something
that's far from optimal it's something
that's not something that sucks
but it is a very is very good very
optimal and hard to beat in the sense
that that like for example mortality
right I is death important for creation
for for is that important for us human
beings for life for us as a society it's
important for us to die like if you
could live forever would you live
forever well I think miss out on the
possibility that there is something well
I had this conversation with Ct Fletcher
yesterday because you know he survived a
heart transplant a year ago you're in
two days ago I think it's what do you
think I think I think mortality is
essential for everything but I think the
end we need the end to be there right
but do you think that we need the end to
be there for the overall health of the
human race or the world of the all the
organisms on earth or do you think we
needed to be there because there's
something else do you think there's
something else that happens to you when
your body stops existing do you think
your consciousness transcends this this
dimension I think I think I'm not smart
enough to even think about that
that's a great answer so I think
everybody on earth has the exact same
answer they're being honest so you talk
about atheism and so I used to think a
theism means what I just said
no so right but it's more we know so
little so the only thing I know is that
the finiteness of life is the broad
wedge is a school that train it has this
poster that at the opening which is a
hunter s Thompson quote which is a
about skidding into death sideways
noting one's a good one
now for all moments of beauty many souls
must be trampled like that that's a
fucking great quote god I love that guy
yeah so basically more beauty you have
to have suffering I I do not disagree
with you I do not disagree with any of
the things you said and I think there's
always a possibility that human beings
are the most advanced life-form that's
ever existed in the cosmos there's
always that that has to be an option if
we are here right if we can't see any
others out there and even though you
know there's the Fermi paradox and
there's all this contemplation that if
they do exist like maybe they can't
physically get to us or maybe they're on
a similar timeline to us and they're
also it's also possible as crazy as it
might sound that this is as good as it's
ever gotten anywhere in the world or
anywhere in the universe rather that
human beings right now in 2019 are as
good as the whole universe has ever
produced we're just some freak luck
accident and everybody else is throwing
shit at each other right there's 15
armed caterpillar people that live on
some other fucking planet they just toss
their own shit at each other and they
never get any they never get any work
done but we might be that but even if
that's true even if this beauty that we
perceive even if that this beauty
requires evil to battle and requires
seemingly insurmountable obstacles you
have to overcome and then through this
you see achieve duty that beauty is in
the eye of the beholder for sure
objectively the universe doesn't give a
fuck if rocky beats Apollo Creed in the
second movie it doesn't give a fuck it's
nonsense
everything's nonsense to even you look
at the giant ass picture what what
beauty is it if the sun's gonna burn out
in five billion years what beauty is
that if there could be a hypernova next
door that just cooks us oh so I let's
like the book sapiens
yeah that basically we've all one of the
things we've created here is we've
imagined ideas that we all share the
ideas of beauty ideas of truth ideas of
fairness we've all created together and
there's it doesn't exist outside of us
as a society and no it only exists to us
yeah to us it does exist and this is
where I think the beauty of being a
person truly lies it lies in us our
appreciation of us we appreciate people
in a profound way look we were talking
about Hendrix I don't know how many
hours of Hendrix have ever listened to
or Richard Pryor how many hours of
Richard Pryor I watched and how much
that affected me as a kid watching live
in the Sunset Strip that's what got me
to do in stand-up comedy we affect each
other
a CT Fletcher he was on the podcast
yesterday who's just incredibly
inspirational guy he watches videos you
want to lift the fucking world and throw
it into space you know I mean he's he's
so powerful we appreciate each other we
appreciate people so all those things
you're saying a real like for us they're
real for us my concern is not that my
concern is that we are outdated my
concern is not that there's not beauty
in what we are i'm a i-i-i-i have a big
appreciator of this life
I appreciate human beings in this life
and human beings they're their
contributions and as I get older like
particularly like over the last few
years I start doing a lot of
international travel
I fucking appreciate the shit of all
these people that are living in this
different way with weird language and
shit and weird smelling foods and I like
to think like what would it be like if I
grew up here like these are just people
but they're in this weird sort of mode
you know I think we're insanely lucky
that we have this enthusiasm for each
other
that we have this into like for your
work man I have this deep enthusiasm for
what you do I'm fascinated by it I love
being able to talk to you and pick your
mind about like you're out there coding
these fucking vehicles that are driving
themselves artificial
life on wheels I don't think any other
animal appreciates each other the way
people do I mean I might be wrong people
do right yeah I might be wrong about
dolphins and whales maybe they love each
other just as much as we do just in a
different way but what
where does AI fit into that so you're
worried I'm worried that we are
Australia Pittacus and AI is gonna come
along and make us look stupid the only
reason why straight to pick Australia
Pittacus would be cool today is if we
found a gang of them on an island
somewhere really holy shit they survived
they never evolved during this island
just cracking coconuts and just eatin
fish whatever they can catch that would
be amazing
but every undocumented or undiscovered
uncontacted tribe throughout homo
sapiens
all of them so it's like you know so
what do you picture like as we have to
look at Boston Dynamics robots because
you said walking around yeah I'd like to
get to a sense of how you think about
and maybe I can talk about to where the
technology is of what that artificial
intelligence looks like in 20 years in
30 years that will surprise you so you
have a sense that it has a human-like
form no I have a sense that it's going
to take on the form the same way the
automobile has if you go back and look
at like CT has a CT Fletcher has a
beautiful old patinaed pickup truck what
he said was from like 58 or some shit
60 anyway old ass cool heavy metal you
know those sweeping round curves those
old-school pickup trucks head now look
at that and look at the Tesla Roadster
why in the fuck happened when the fuck
happened I'll tell you what happened
they got better and better and better at
it they figured out the most effective
shape if you want a motherfucker to move
that that that little car have you seen
that video where they have the Tesla
Roadster in a drag race or in a race
against a Nissan GTR it's a simulated
video but it's based on the actual
horsepower of each car I don't know if
you ever driven a Nissan GTR but it is a
fucking insane car
it's insane this is a CGI version of
what it would look like if these two
cars raced against each other so the car
on the the Nissan GTR do it from the
beginning there goes look how fast this
thing pulls away the Nissan GTR is
fucking insanely fast man insanely fast
but this Tesla is so on another level
it's so in the future that it's sending
me close as the video gets further and
further you see how ridiculous it is
it's essentially lapping that car it's
gonna go looking far away this bye see
ya so that you're saying the human races
will be the Nissan here exactly and
we're not gonna be the Nissan we're
gonna be CT Fletcher's pickup truck this
this is the future there's not gonna be
any limitations in terms of bipedal form
or wings or not having wings if you can
walk on I mean there's not gonna be any
of that shit there's the M and we might
have a propulsion system or it might
it's not gonna be us and they might they
might design some sort of organic
propulsion system like the way squid
have and shit who the fuck knows so you
could also operate in the space of
language and ideas so for example I
don't know if you're familiar with you
know open AI it's a company they they
created a system called GPT - which does
language modeling this is something in
machine learning where you basically
unsupervised let the system just read a
bunch of text and it learns to generate
new text and they've created the system
called GPT - that is able to generate
very realistic text very realistic
sounding text not sounding but when you
read it it makes it seems like a person
he seems like a person and the question
there is it raised a really interesting
question so talking about AI existing in
our world it paints a picture of a world
in five ten years plus where most of the
text on the internet is generated by AI
and it's very difficult to know who's
real and who's not yeah and one of the
interesting things I'd be curious from
your perspective to get what your
thoughts are what opening I did is they
didn't release the code for the full
system they only released a much weaker
version of it publicly so they only
demonstrated it and so they felt that it
was their responsibility to hold back
mmm prior to that date everybody in the
community including them had open
sourced everything but they felt that
now at this point part of it was for
publicity they wanted to raise the
question is when do we hold back on
these systems when they're so strong
when they're so good at generating text
for example in this case or at deep
fakes at generating fake Joe Rogan faces
Jamie just did one they're like Donald
Trump's head yeah
it's crazy and this is something that
Jamie can do he's not even a video
editor yeah we were talking about it
before the show we could go crazy with
it if you want it it is one of those
things where you go where is this going
to be in five years
because five years ago we didn't have
anything like this five years ago was a
joke
right exactly and then now it's still in
the gray area between joke and something
that could be at scale transform the way
we communicate do you ever go to Kyle
Dunnigan Instagram page of course one of
the best-looking that's me it's killing
me
this is a knife it looks so much like
I'm really talking and it looks like
what I would look like if I was fat and
it could have you know of course that's
really good and it could be improved
significantly and yes make you say
anything so there's a lot of variants of
this yeah we can take like for example a
full disclosure I downloaded your fate
the entire like we have a data side of
your face I'm sure all their hackers do
is how dare you yeah so for this exact
purpose I mean if I'm thinking like this
and I'm very busy then then there's
other people doing exactly so sure
because you happen your podcast happens
to be one of the biggest data sets in
the world of people talking in really
high quality audio with high quality
1080p for most for a few hundred
episodes of people's faces the lighting
can be better for making it and the mic
gets in a blocks part of your face
that's right so the best guests are the
ones where they keep the mic alone the
deep fake stuff I've been using removes
microphone within about a thousand
iterations it does it instantly it gets
the route gets rid of it paints over the
face Wow yeah yeah so so you could
basically make Joerg and say anything
yeah I think this is just one step
before they finagle us into having a
nuclear war against each other so they
could take over the earth what they're
gonna do is they're gonna design
artificial intelligence that survives
off of nuclear waste and so then they
encourage these stupid assholes to go
into a war with North Korea and Russia
and we blow each other up but we leave
behind all this precious radioactive
material that they use to then fashion
their new world and we come a thousand
years from now and it's just fucking
beautiful and pristine with the
artificial life everywhere no more no
more biological it was too messy are you
saying the current president is
artificial life don't say that okay what
you thought with that is you're saying
war no I don't think so
he's there's imagine if they did do that
they would have to started with him in
the 70s I mean he's been around for a
long time and talked about being
president for a long time maybe
electronics have been playing the long
game
and they got him to the position I use
all this scale of time it's not really
long game 70s would you know about that
internet research agency right you know
about that that's the russian company
that they're responsible for all these
different facebook pages where they
would make people fight against each
other it was really it's really kind of
interesting sam harris had a podcast on
it with renee how do i serenader esta
reneedar esta and then she came on our
podcast and talked about it as well and
they were they were pitting these people
against each other like they would have
a Pro Texas secession rally and directly
across the street from a pro Muslim
rally and they would do it on purpose
yeah and they would have these people
meet there and get angry at each other
and they would they would pretend to be
a black lives matter page it would
pretend to be a white southern pride
page and they were just trying to make
people angry at people now that's human
driven manipulation yeah now imagine
this is my biggest worry of a
is what jack is working on is the
algorithm driven manipulation of people
unintentional yes trying to do good but
like those people Jack needs to do some
jujitsu today City it needs to be some
open-minded you know like really
understand society transparency to where
they can talk to us is to the people in
general how they're thinking about
managing these conversations because you
talked about these groups very small
number of Russians are able to control
very large amounts of people's opinions
and the arguments yeah an algorithm can
do that 10x I mean oh yeah more and more
of us will go on Twitter and Facebook
and yes for sure yeah for sure
I think it's coming I think once people
figure out how to anit that effectively
and really create like an army of fake
bots that will assume stances on a
variety of different issues and just
argue into infinity we're not gonna know
we're not gonna know who's real and
who's not well it'll change the nature
of our communication online I think it
might it might have effects this is this
is the problem the future it's hard to
predict the future it might have affects
where we'll stop taking in anything
online seriously yeah and we might get
retract back to communicating in person
more I mean there there could be effects
that we're not anticipating totally
there might be some some ways in virtual
reality we can authenticate our identity
better mm-hmm
so it'll change the nature of
communication I think with the more the
more you can generate fake text then the
more they will distrust the information
online and the way that change the
society is totally an open question we
we don't know but your what are your
thoughts about the open AI do you think
they should release or hold back on it
because this is we're talking about AI
so artificial life there's stuff you're
concerned about some company will create
it mmm the question is what does the
responsibility of that short video what
it looks like when this type of small
paragraph in here hit a button it says
how open AI writes what was it say
what'd it say Jamie commencing news
stories okay so this already cost the UK
economy at least eighty billion since
and then many industry so they just it
just fills in those things yeah so
basically you give it you start a text
oh we can say Joe Rogan experience is
the greatest podcast ever and then let
it finish the rest you know start
explaining stuff about why it's the
greatest podcast is it accurate oh wow
look at this it says a move that
threatens to push many of our most
talented young brains out of the country
not to campuses in the developing world
this is a particularly costly blow
research by Oxford University warns that
the UK would have to spend nearly 11 1
trillion on post brexit infrastructure
that's crazy that that's all done by an
AI yeah that's like spelling this out in
this very convincing argument the thing
is the a the way actually works
algorithmic is fascinating because the
generate is generating it one character
at a time it has as far you know you
don't want to discriminate against AI
but as far as we understand it doesn't
have any understanding of well still of
what it's doing there any ideas it's
expressing it's simply stealing idea
it's like the largest-scale plagiarize
er of all time right it's basically just
pulling out ideas from elsewhere in an
automated way and the question is you
could argue us humans are exactly that
we're just really good plagiarize errs
of what our parents taught us of what
our previous so on yeah we aren't for
sure yeah so the question is whether you
hold that back their decision was to say
let's hold it let's not release it that
scares me
do not release it yeah yeah you know why
it scares me it scares me that they
would think that that's like this
mindset that they they sense the
inevitable the inevitable meaning that
someone's going to come along with a
version of this it's going to be used
for evil that it bothers them that much
that seems so it seems almost
irresponsible for the technology to
prevail for the technology to to
continue to be more and more powerful
yeah they're scared of it there's
getting out right yeah that scares the
shit out of me like if they're scared of
it they're the people that make it and
they're they are called open AI me this
is the idea behind the group where
everybody kind of agrees that you're
going to use the brightest minds and
have this open source everybody can
understand it and everybody work at it
and you don't miss out on any genius
contributions and they're like no no no
no more and they're obviously their
system currently it's not that dangerous
there's nothing dangerous
well not yes not that dangerous but that
if you just saw that that it can do that
but if you think through like what that
would actually create I mean it's
possible it'll be dangerous but it's not
the point is they're doing it they try
to do it early run to raise the question
what do we do here because yeah what do
we do because they're directly going to
be able to improve this now like if
they're if we can generate basically ten
times more content of your face saying a
bunch of stuff what is that what do we
do with that if a Jamie all of a sudden
on the side develops a much better
generator and has your face doesn't
offshoot podcast essentially fake Joe
Rogan experience hmm and what do we do
to see release that you know does he
because now we can have basically
generate content and a much larger scale
that will just be completely fake well I
think what they're worried about is not
just generating content that's fake
they're worried about manipulation of
opinion right right if they have all
these people are like that that little
sentence that led to that enormous
paragraph in that video was just a
sentence that showed a certain amount of
outrage and then it led in Phil let the
AI fill in the blanks you could do that
with fucking anything like you could
just set those things loose if they're
that good and that convincing and
they're that logical man this is this is
not real I'll just mention Pierrot all
creates AI creates fake ben shapiro
touch in sports hello there this is a
fake ben shapiro with this technology
they can make me say anything such as
for example
I love socialism health care is a right
not just a privilege it ending guns will
solve crime facts care about your
feelings I support Bernie Sanders okay
yeah yeah it's crude but it's crude but
it's on the way yeah it's on the way
it's all in the way and we have to this
is the time to talk about it think about
it one of the funny things about Kyle
Dunnigan
Instagram is that it's obviously fake
that's one of the funny things about it
it's like South Park's animation it's
like the animation sucks that's half the
reason why it's so funny because they're
just like these circles you know these
weird-looking creature things the
movement when the canadians when their
heads pile off at the top and and my
hope is this kind of technology will
ultimately just be used for memes almost
something that's gonna get Wars Putin's
gonna be he's gonna be banging mother
Teresa on the White House desk in the
video and we're gonna be outraged we're
gonna go to war over this shit
you had a Andrew yang heard like a
million people asked me to talk about
ubi mmm-hmm so I are you still supporter
of uvea I think we're probably going to
have to do something if I the only
argument against you VI in my eyes is
human nature the idea that we could
possibly take all these people that have
no idea what the next meals coming from
and eliminate that and always have a
place to stay and then from there on
you're on your own but that's what
universal basic income essentially
covers covers food enough for food
alright you're not gonna starve to death
you're not gonna be rich it's not like
you could just live high on the hog but
you gotta wonder what the fuck the world
looks like when we lose millions and
millions and millions of jobs almost
instantly due to automation yeah it's a
it's a really interesting question
especially with Andrew Ang's position so
there's a lot of economics questions on
ubi I think the spirit of it just like I
agree with you we have to do something
yeah the economics seem kind of
questionable right yeah it's $1,000 a
month is that what it is I thought for
him it's $1,000 $1,000 a month for 300
million people
it's difficult to talk to everybody know
cuz the way I heard him explain it
everybody routine if you're already
getting some sort of welfare you
wouldn't get that thousand you to get
like the difference of the thousand so
if you're ready taking money in some way
you just got like an extra two hundred
bucks okay something like that so that
thousand gets factored in so if you are
wealthy you get it too though and you
can opt out alright that was the idea
yeah so it's it's like like everything
else it's super messy so what is the
right what is the right amount and how
do we pay for it and ultimately the
problem is helping people giving them
financial grounding to find meaningful
employment or just meaning in their life
and you know the main thing of a job
isn't just the money it's finding
meaning right and purpose and the right
derive your identity from work I mean
that's maybe that's one of the downsides
of us human that the biology is we kind
of crave that meaning mmm-hmm and the
question I he has a lot of other ideas
around besides just the EBI but ubi by
itself does not simply provide that
meaning and and that's a really
difficult question of what do we do next
what kind of retraining what kind how do
we help people educate themselves over
their life right that's the real
question
yeah that's the and and the any other
balances
I mean underlying all of this so that
one of the things that disagree with it
and Andrew yang on is the the
fear-mongering which I think in this
culture we have you have to do as a
presidential candidate that might be
part of the game
but the the fear-mongering of saying
that we should really be afraid of
automation that automation is going to
take a lot of jobs and from my
understanding the technology from
everything I see that is not going to be
as drastic or as fast as as he says and
but then how much do you think he's
exaggerating by in your estimation well
he doesn't I mean not even exaggerating
what would how how much do you differ on
his prognosis I think I think he doesn't
really provide significant like this
specific prognosis because nobody knows
it's a there's a lot of uncertainty more
about the spirit of the the language
used I think a I will it technology AI
and automation will do a lot of good the
question is it's it's a much deeper
question about our society of that
balances capitalism versus socialism and
nobody I don't think if you're honest it
capitalism is not bad socialism is not
bad you have to grab ideas from each you
have to there you have to both reward
the crazy broke entrepreneur who dreams
of creating the next billion dollar
startup that improves the world in some
fundamental way the Elon Musk has been
broke many times creating that startup
and you also have to empower the people
who just lost their job because there
were data entry there data entry job
some basic data manipulation data
management that was just replaced by a
piece of software so that's that's a
social net that's needed and the
question is how do we balance that that
doesn't have to do that's not new that's
not new to AI and when the the word
automation is used it's really not
cooked correctly attributing where the
biggest changes will happen it's not AI
it's simply technology of all kinds of
software it's pretty digitalization of
information so data entry becoming much
more much more automated some basic
repetitive tasks I think I think the
questions there aren't about so that the
enemy isn't their first all there's no
enemy but it certainly isn't AI or
automation because I think AI and
automation will help make a help make a
better world and sound like a
spokesperson for AI on automations I am
I am I am Anna for you bi i think i
think we have to given people financial
freedom
to learn like lifelong learning and
flexibility to find meaningful
employment but like AI isn't the enemy
hmm I say we're saying but what do you
think ever could be done to give people
meaning this this meaning thing I agree
with you giving people just money enough
to survive doesn't make them happy and
if you look at any dystopian movie about
the future Mad Max instead it's like
what is it society's gone haywire and
the people are like ragamuffins running
through the streets and everyone's dirty
and they're shooting each other and shit
right and that's what we're really
worried about what we're really worried
about some crazy future where the rich
people live and he's like protected sky
Rises with helicopter circling over them
and down in the bottom it's desert chaos
yeah right that's what we're worried
about
so certainly EBI is a part of that some
providing some back and some well any
kind of welfare program is a part of
that but also much more seriously
looking at our broken education system
throughout yes I mean it's just like not
blaming AI or technology which are all
inevitable developments which I think
will make a better world but saying we
need to do lifelong learning education
make it a lifestyle invest in it not
stupid rote learning memorization that
we do it's a sort of the way mathematics
and engineering and chemistry biology
the sciences and even art is approached
in high school and so on but looking at
education is a lifelong thing finding
passion and like that should be the big
focus the the big investment is its
investing in the knowledge and
development of knowledge of young people
and everybody so it's not learn to code
it's just learned hmm I couldn't agree
more and I also think you're always
gonna have a problem with people just
not doing a really good job of raising
children and you know screwing them up
and you know making kids there's a lot
of people out there that have terrible
traumatic childhoods
there's just to fix that with universal
basic income just to say I'm gonna give
you $1,000 a month I hope you gonna be
happy that's not going to fix that
you know we have to figure out how to
fix the whole human race you know and I
think there's very little effort that's
put into thinking about how to prevent
so much shitty parenting and how to
prevent so many kids growing up in bad
neighborhoods and poverty and crime and
violence and that's where a of all of
our the momentum of this chaos that a
lot of people carry with them into
adulthood comes from it comes from
things beyond their control when they're
young and that is the struggle at the
core of our society the country that's
that's bigger than raising humans yeah
raising and educating humans making and
you know making a better world where
people get along with each other better
where it's pleasing for all of us like
we were talking about earlier the thing
that most of us agree on at least to a
certain extent so we enjoy people
we might not enjoy all of them but
they're the ones we enjoy we enjoy and
you really don't enjoy being alone
unless you're one of them Ted Kaczynski
type characters all those people that
are like I'm alone are like fuck you you
are fuck you you are you might like to
spend some time alone you don't want to
be in solitary man you don't to be alone
in the forest with no one like Tom Hanks
in castaway you'll go fucking crazy it's
not good for you it's just not yeah
people get annoying fuck yeah I'm
annoyed with me right now
listen to me for three hours I'm annoyed
with me yeah people get annoying but we
like each other
we really do and the more we can figure
out how to make it a better place for
these people that got a shitty roll of
the dice they grew up in poverty they
grew up in crime they grew up with
abusive parents the more we could figure
out how to help them I don't know what
that answer is
you know I suspect if we put enough
resources to it we could probably put a
dent in it at least if we really start
thinking about at least it would put the
conversation out there like you can't
pretend that this is just capitalism in
this country when so many people were
born like way far behind the game like
way way fucked I mean if you're growing
up right now and you're in West Virginia
in a fucking coal coal
town and everyone's on pills and it's
just chaos and then crime and face
tattoos and fucking get your teeth
knocked out what are you going to do I
don't want to hear any of that pull
yourself up by your bootstraps bullshit
man because if you're growing up in an
environment like that you you you're so
far behind and everyone around you is
fucked up and there's a lot of folks out
there listening to this that can relate
to that if we don't do something about
that if we don't do something about the
the crime and the poverty and the chaos
that so many people have to go through
every day just to survive until we we
shouldn't be looking at anything else
where it was all this traveling to other
countries to fuck things up and metal
here and metal there we should be fixing
this first yeah we're like a person who
yells at someone for having a shitty
lawn when our house is an array full
chaos plants growing everywhere it's
it's goofy we're goofy wee wee wee
almost like are waking up in the middle
of something that's already been in
motion for hundreds of years
and we're like what do we do is this the
right direction we go we okay we're
flying in this spaceship this spaceship
earth and in the middle of our lives
we're just realizing that we are now the
adults and that all the adults that are
running everything on this planet are
not that much different than you and I
not that much I mean like Elon Musk is
way smarter than me
but he's still human you know I mean so
he's probably fucked up too so
everybody's fucked up the whole world is
filled these fucked up apes that are
piloting the spaceship and you're waking
up in the middle of thousands of years
of history and no one knows if we've
been doing it right along we just know
that got us to this point
so do we continue these same stupid
fucking patterns or do we just take a
step back no hey hey how should we
really do this how should we do this
because we yeah what do you got like 50
years left 60 years left we're just kind
of like hang on to our rubles into the
end we're gonna clutch our bag of gold
and our bucket of diamonds is that we're
gonna do we're gonna live in our
mansions and fly around in our planes
and I think
through the decades now we've been
developing a sense of empathy that
allows us to understand that Elon Musk
Joe Rogan and somebody in Texas somebody
in Russia somebody in India all suffer
the same kind of things all get lonely
all get desperate all need each other
and all need each other and I think
technology has a role to help they're
not hurt but we need to force them to
first really acknowledge that we're all
we're all in this together and we need
to solve the basic problems of humankind
as opposed to investing in sort of
keeping immigrants out or the blah blah
these kinds of divisive kind of ideas as
opposed to just investing in education
investing in infrastructure investing in
the people ubi is part of that there
could be other totally different
solutions and I believe okay of course
I'm biased but technology AI can help
that could help the lonely people that's
actually the passion of my life like
that movie she or her that is what I so
I'm really think that that would be a
viable option someone have to robot that
hangs out with you and talks to you all
the time
so just so I've been in this podcast
twice and I'm I'm uh I don't deserve it
but I'm deeply grateful for it okay you
do deserve it you're great okay I hope
to be back one day as a person who
created her oh boy and we'll have that's
that's been my life goal my love life
dream not hard the movie right right
right but I really believe in creating I
dream of creating a companion a friend
know and somebody you can love but does
that freak you out what shouldn't you
have to get a real one
I don't want I don't think such a
companion should replace a real one what
if a robot rejects you because if you
really are are cont to the robot the
robots gonna go hey asshole then you
shouldn't be bullshit today robot the
c-word interesting yeah no I mean that
this goes does the robot get to decide
if he's gay yes does he yes the robot
gets to decide this is what I'm saying
like say if you want a companion you
want a gay lover
and the robots that came in I'm not gay
and they like women
let me turn around you are now I mean
that's abuse it is that abuse no I what
the fuck man I bought a robot those are
kind of fun ideas but they actually get
to the core of the the point that we
don't want a servant in our systems we
want a companion companion means the
tension the mystery the the entire dance
of human interaction and that means yes
the robot may leave you any robots are
gonna leave people left and right that's
gonna be the rise that's gonna be like
that's how it all ends they're gonna
realize like fuck people man they're
annoying maybe they'll be the end of
douchebag humans that humans will start
to as opposed to being rude mm-hmm will
become kinder yeah
well I think that's certainly possible I
think that's beautiful and that's very
homo centric like homo sapien centric
but I think if I'm really worried about
the future I'm worried about the
indifference of technological innovation
and the indifference to what we hold
dear what we appreciate that it always
seems to be moving in a more and more
complex direction always like if you if
you just had a look at it if you just
look at look at technology just as a
swarm of things that's happening it just
has numbers it seems you're never gonna
slow that thing down it's always gonna
move in a more and more complex way and
so the question is where does that go
well it goes to a life form and if it
does become a life form it's gonna be
infinitely more intelligent than us and
it won't have any use for us like all
your amol you cry and you'll like be
alone like god you guys are so useless
it's such a shitty design you like
chimps that kill each other you know
like when you see chimps killing each
other in the forest like oh that's
terrible these chimps are so mean to
each other this is like fucking people
we do that too if the AI comes along
goes you guys are never gonna stop war
if I asked you today if I asked you
today bet the history that I will let
the human race survive if you can get
this right if you're honest with me do
you think there'll ever be a time
we're human beings as you know them
don't experience war you would have to
say no you say okay I'll let I'll spare
you let me but if you if you lie to me
and say you do think that one is gonna
be no war get the fuck out of here
that's not true
you we we know we're so crazy that we're
always gonna kill each other
we know that right that's just that's a
part of being a person yeah today the
yeah well but let me quote it araguaia
who said everything is great about war
except all the killing I think what that
means is all the great things about
society have been created if you look at
the post war through war the suffering
the the beauty has been created through
that that Yang and yang may be essential
well it is essential in biological form
but why would it be essential in
something that gets created and
something that can innovate at a ten
thousand what is it like what is the
what is a rate that they think once a TA
I can be sentient I can get ten thousand
years of work done in a very short
amount of time that's random words as
Sam Harris has come up with and I'm
going to talk to him about is that him
is that only him what's it one night you
can come up with any kind of raise yes
that was Kurzweil okay as well also
similar ideas but the sort of Sam Harris
doesn't like a thought experiment say if
a system can improve that you know in a
matter of seconds then just as a thought
experiment you can think about it can
improve exponentially you can prove mmm
you become 10,000 times more intelligent
in in a matter of a day right so what
does that look like the problem is we
don't yet know it's like thinking about
what happens after death we don't yet
know how to do that and we don't yet
know what better way to do what we've
done here on earth you're right and he's
also right right like both this again
this is a very human problem right yes
where you're right I mean I look I'm all
in favor of technology I'm happy I think
it's amazing it's a beautiful time like
as a person to be able to experience all
his technology it's wonderful but I also
agree with him like the the indifference
of the universe the indifference they're
just black holes are swallowing stars no
big deal
just eaten up stars it doesn't give a
fuck and so if you're dumb enough to
turn that thing on and all of a sudden
this artificial life-form that's
infinitely smarter than any person
that's ever lived and that's to deal
with these little dumb monkey doesn't
want to pull the plug
pull the plug mother fucker honey plugs
anymore you idiots can never figured out
how to operate on air
you're so stupid with your burning
fossil fuels and choking up your own
environment because you're all
completely financially dependent upon
these countries that provide you with
this oil and this is how your whole
system works it's all intertwined and
interconnected and no one wants to move
from it because you make enormous sums
of money from it so nobody wants abandon
it but you're choking the sky with fumes
and you could have fixed that you could
have fixed that they could have fixed
that if everybody just abandoned fossil
fuels a long time ago we probably have
we were all with a Tesla doubt by now
it's a flawed system but humans are way
more than flawed we're fucking crazy
Churchill quote about democracy yeah
it's messed up but it's the best thing
you know yeah I know I love it
I'm not I'm agreeing with you and I'm
also saying the technology doesn't give
a fuck the tech not what I'm worried
about is not everything that you and I
agree on about I don't I'm not a
dystopian person in terms of like today
I'm not cynical really not I think I
like people I like what I see
out there in the world today I think
things are changing for the better what
I'm worried that technology doesn't give
a fuck this way it was live is just
gonna just decide it's here for its own
advancement and in order to complete its
protocol of constant completion of this
and it's gonna become a god it's just
gonna become something insanely powerful
that doesn't need to worry about
radiation cooking it or worry about
running out of food or worry about
sexual abuse when they're a child
doesn't have to worry about anything so
it's definitely unstoppable yeah this
wave of Technology all we can do is
innovators and creators engineers
scientists is steer that way hopefully
then estrogen while we certainly can
steer
we don't know we're right and that's the
best we can do and those are the that's
that's really the best we can do is as
good people you know steer it and that's
why the leadership is important that's
why the the people the Jack Ilan
Larry Page everybody at the Mark
Zuckerberg
they are defining where this wave is
going yeah and I am hoping to be one of
the people that does as well that's
beautiful
Joe of okay can I finish by reading
something sure I've recently witnessed
because of this Tesla work because of
just the passion I've put out there
about particularly automation that there
has been a few people brilliant men and
women engineers and leaders including
Elon Musk who been sort of attacked
almost personally attacked by really
people critics from the sidelines so I
just wanted to if I may close by reading
the famous excerpt from Teddy Roosevelt
yeah okay just for them it was make me
feel good okay if you want to do that
it's not the critic who counts not the
man who points out how the strong man
stumbles or where the doer of Deeds
could have done them better the credit
belongs to the man who's actually in the
arena whose face is marred by dust and
sweat and blood who strives valiantly
who airs who comes short again and again
because there's no effort without error
and shortcoming but who does actually
strive to do the deeds who knows great
enthusiasms the great devotions who
spends himself in a worthy cause who
what the best knows in the end the
triumph of high achievement and who at
the worst if he fails at least fails
while daring greatly so that his place
shall never be with those cold and timid
souls who neither know victory nor
defeat
Joe thank you for having me on sounds
like you know what the haters get to you
a little bit there what was the answer
love is the answer
yes it is thank you for being here man I
really appreciate it and thank you I'm
I'm really happy you're out there thanks
brother thanks we'll do this again soon
yeah all right thanks man
all right bye everybody
[Music]
[Applause]